Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome executive vice president, Microsoft Business Solutions, Kirill Tatarinov. 
 Well, good morning, everyone! Hello, Convergence 2013. I’m so pleased and excited to be here with you this morning. We have an amazing show for you. Thank you for being with us. Twelve thousand people, as Wayne mentioned, are here today with us in this arena, and thousands more watching through the virtual event.
This is my seventh Convergence as the leader of Microsoft Business Solutions, and I cannot be more proud of what you are all achieving with our technologies, and we’re going to be able to show you some powerful examples through my guests, our best customers, showing you how these technologies come into use and how all of them are becoming dynamic, united, modern, digital businesses.
The dynamics of human connection, technology makes things truly amazingly possible. Technology reshapes the entire social fabric of our community. Our relationships are enriched, our collective intelligence heightened. We communicate and work in very different ways together more productively, and we’re much more interdependent today through technology than we’ve ever been in the past.
And if there is one event in human history that truly serves as the hub of human connection, putting all the politics aside and allowing people to come together and demonstrate their excellence, results and achievements, that is certainly the Olympic games.
Sochi 2014, the games were over about 10 days ago, Paralympics games are going as we speak. And truly those events were brought to a very large population of people around the planet through technology. And we’re really proud about the role Microsoft had to play, had an opportunity to play, to bring those games to you.
Windows Azure and Windows Azure Media Services delivered live streaming to over 100 million people around the planet through 6,000 hours of high-definition format.
Over a million people around the world watched the games and saw the results through Windows Phone apps, and actually saw them in real time live for the first time.
Windows SharePoint and CRM served as the information backbone for the games, serving the attendees and guests.
And, of course, Dynamics AX 2012 was the ERP system for the games, truly demonstrating something unique and something that’s never been done before. Dynamics AX 2012 received a gold medal of sorts by itself, being awarded as the best ERP for Olympics by International Olympics Committee. We’re truly proud of what we were able to do there.
This was the only solution on earth that could scale to tens of thousands of people using the system during the games. Yet the system also allowed the organizing committee to start very small with just a handful of people five years ago when they started to deploy the system. I’m really proud of what we were able to accomplish there.
This year, actually this next week by some accounts, we will celebrate 25 years of Worldwide Web. And it’s amazing what the Web was able to do in the last 25 years to popularize the Internet. Something that 25 years ago was just a domain of few, today is the domain of everybody, and all of us get a chance to benefit from this amazing technology through the innovation of the Worldwide Web, and everything that grew from it.
Today, the five very powerful forces, confluence of those forces, continue to reshape the world around us and the world of business, of course: cloud, mobility, big data, ubiquitous connectivity, social communications. These forces coming together really enable us to create digital enterprise, really enable us to take advantage of this broad range of devices that connect the universe, connect the world, and connect all of us together.
Yet at the same time, in my travels as I go around the world and meet customers, I find that very few actually put that technology to productive use. Only a few organizations today, as you see from this statistic, tap into the power of big data and gain powerful insight to benefit their business through that technology.
And when I think about the role Microsoft will play in this connected world, that is the role to bring these powerful forces of innovation to everybody.
We may not always be the first to bring and innovate this technology to the world, but we will be the one to bring this technology to everybody. That’s how we think about our role, bring technology innovation to everybody around the planet, make every business a dynamic business, and at the end of the day help every one of you to be highly successful.
The world of the customer is also transforming in a very powerful way. We’re truly now living in this era of the customer. The customers expect amazing results from you as you serve them. They expect information flowing to them just when they need it.
Switching costs vary a lot today, and it’s really the situation in the environment where competitors is one click away, and we find that over 90 percent of people, when they’re not happy they don’t complain, they just make this click and go away. So how do we keep them together, how do we keep them with us?
At the same time, those who are happy are prepared to pay more, and people really don’t have a problem paying more for excellent service. And at the same time, we find that those organizations that are excellent at delivering great service to their customers deliver amazing results, stay in the business, become digital enterprises, and help their customers transform and move forward.
In this new era of the customer more than ever before it is highly important for us to engage customers on their terms at the time when they need, using the medium that they need. It is very important to nurture this relationship and to truly understand the customer end-to-end. And of course delighting them with the product and the service that you bring to them is what fulfills the mission and essentially connects this virtuous cycle of customer satisfaction.
It is amazing to me that in this era of the customer there’s still so little knowledge around the world about the customers that organizations serve. And really the role that yet again Microsoft and Microsoft Dynamics will play in the future and starting to play today is to help you transform and enter that era of the customers by understanding who they are, where they are, where they want to be tomorrow very deeply and in a very powerful way.
You may ask a question, where do I start and how do I become the customer-centric company? Well, it starts with the culture. To be a customer-centric company you truly need to make sure that the customer-centric culture penetrates deeply in your organization.
It’s the humans who connect with the customers. It’s the people who talk to people. It’s not business-to-business, business-to-technology, B2B, B2C, it is P2P, it is people-to-people. And humanizing the enterprise and making sure that every single person in your organization thinks customer and thinks customer excellence and customer experience is the most important step in becoming a customer-centric organization.
It always starts with at the top, it starts with the leadership. In my travel I find organizations where CEOs truly become chief digital officers. And when you ask a question, who is responsible for CRM deployment in your organization, who is responsible for making sure that the customer data is accurate and who is responsible for making sure that customer concerns are being acted upon at the right time with the right answers, and when the CEO raises his or her hand and says, “It is me,” I know that that organization is going to be successful moving forward, I know that that company is on the course to become a digital business, dynamic business of the future. That’s how it all starts and that’s how it continues.
Business process helps, technology and amazing tools definitely help, but first and foremost it’s customer-centric culture, and it’s the principal leadership that helps organizations move into the era of customer.
Now, let me illustrate the concept that we talked about, let me illustrate this era of the customer by showing you a little visionary video.
 Something that lasts a lifetime.
Now, let me talk about Microsoft, obviously lots of changes in our organization as we continue on our journey of transformation, as we continue to look at this changing world around us and our place in this world.
Last year, as you saw from Wayne’s presentation, lots of innovation. Truly it was another year of the best innovation from Microsoft, lots of changes. We’re a few weeks away from closing on our biggest acquisition in our history, Nokia. 
New CEO Satya Nadella was named CEO of Microsoft exactly one month ago. I’m really excited about Satya becoming our CEO. I’ve known Satya for almost 12 years now. He has very deep insight, a very thoughtful, deep guy, with a lot of knowledge of the industry. Truly excited about him leading the company and leading us into this new era.
I know many people in the room actually know Satya quite well. He used to run Microsoft Dynamics in the past, and he deeply understands this business and how powerful this business is in transforming lives of organizations around the planet, and putting Microsoft into becoming mission-critical provider of business technologies for our customers.
Now, with all those changes, a number of things in Microsoft remain invariant. First and foremost, it is our mission to help people and businesses around the world to realize their full potential. Our strategy is to enable high-value activities for people at work, at home, and on the go, by giving them devices and services and powerful scenarios to connect the two.
One may look at our statements and say, well, Microsoft is truly the company that is set to help people do more amazing things, and that’s really how I want to think about Microsoft. We’re the company that helps people do more amazing things.
Of course innovation and the investment in innovation has been the powerful underpinning, the powerful platform, the powerful engine of everything that we’ve done in over 35 years of our history.
And in the last five years if there is one probably most significant, most important area of innovation where we invested and delivered some phenomenal result is the cloud.
Actually last year at Convergence 2013 we talked about one united Microsoft cloud for the first time. Looking back, I would say in the last 12 months we’ve certainly done more than 12 months’ worth of work. There are very powerful examples, some of which you’re going to see later this morning on how one united Microsoft cloud helps organizations, helps businesses become dynamic, help them move into the future, help them become digital businesses.
Microsoft cloud targets people’s productivity first and foremost, whether people in sales or people in production, whether just general information workers. The power of productivity that comes to people through the Microsoft Office 365 is just astounding. And yesterday, at the SharePoint Conference we announced yet more advancements to Office 365, really transforming the way people work.
Social communication, it is beyond just tapping in the power of social networks, it is really putting all the power of information through social media to work. 
And it’s also multimodal. It needs to bring many different ways people communicate together and really give people a choice, whether it’s social interaction, live video or chat or email, and do it consistently from the same set of tools. Yet again a combination of Yammer, Office 365, Dynamics CRM, SharePoint creates this ability for people to do this.
Deep insights. Big data has certainly become a buzzword in our industry but at the end of the day, it’s the deep insights and analytics that put big data to work and really help businesses gain deeper insights so they can make better decisions.
With Power BI, probably the most amazing innovation the big data world has seen in the last few years, with Power BI becoming a part of Office 365 and that innovation being surfaced through Excel, through Office 365, is just phenomenal how Microsoft is democratizing the world of big data and making it available to everybody yet again.
And last but not least, everything we do is a platform. Extensibility is more important today than ever before. Our partners — and I know there are lots of partners here in the room — really enjoy the capabilities, the extensibility of everything that we build in the cloud, and really allowing rich community of ISVs and developers to build on our platforms, to make it richer, to deliver very unique solutions for different parts of the world, for different industries, for different unique scenarios.
This week, we’re launching one Microsoft cloud global advertising campaign, and it’s really our way to show the world how far we’ve come and what Microsoft cloud can truly do for businesses and organizations around the planet. You may have seen some early advertising in the press here in Atlanta this morning.
So I’m going to let you in on something that the world is actually going to see in about two weeks during Grand Prix in Sydney. We’re going to air this ad. Let’s roll it.
 It is my absolute pleasure and privilege to welcome onstage Matthew Carter, chief executive officer of Lotus Formula 1 team. Matthew, please join me.  Welcome. We’re very excited to have you here. 
Certainly speed and agility is what makes Lotus Formula 1. Decisions must be made in a split second, and lots of analysis going on. 
But first it takes more than a driver. So perhaps you’ll share with the group what does CEO of Lotus Formula 1 team, of the team that with such an amazing speed do?
 Well, basically, I need to look after the team back at the factory, as well as the team that are on the track. 
So there’s two races in Formula 1. There’s the race that’s going on on the track, and there’s the race back at the factory to constantly improve and to constantly come up with new ideas.
 Well, that’s great, and obviously technology is playing a very significant role.
 Absolutely, absolutely. 
 — both on track and off track.
 Absolutely. In our industry one of the key areas is cost control. So over the last few years, all the teams have tried to cut their costs, and the FIA have introduced a number of different measures to try and cut costs.
One of those measures is to decrease the amount of testing that we’re allowed to do on track. Therefore, we need to do as much as we possibly can off the track, and that involves technology.
 So simulation, analytics, all of that is the key. But you mentioned cost control. And Dynamics AX 2012, I know it’s live at Lotus, I know at Lotus Formula 1. I know you’re running it deeply. What has been the advantage since you deployed Dynamics AX to manage your business end-to-end?
 We’ve implemented the back office. So we’ve implemented AX and BizTalk at the moment, and we’re just rolling into Office 365 at the moment.
Where it gives us an advantage above some of the other teams is in terms of what we can analyze exactly what it’s costing us to make a performance gain on the car. So we can look at maybe a change to a front wing or a change to a rear wing, and we can decide which of those is going to be the most cost-effective way of increasing the speed on the track.
 That’s quite amazing. So it is agility and speed that you clearly gain.
 Absolutely, absolutely.
 So what’s next? We talk about Lotus Formula 1 team in the context of Microsoft cloud.
 Yeah, we’re moving into the cloud. So we’ve already moved our website and our homepage into the cloud.
 Azure, right?
 Azure, absolutely. And then for us it’s a case of moving more things into the cloud. So we can move our simulation and our testing onto the cloud and use the high-performance computing within the cloud to help us to gain a better understanding of stress components on the car and extra bits and pieces that will increase the speed on the track.
 All right, well, Matthew, this is really exciting, and I’m truly proud of the role we get to play in this partnership.
 Absolutely.
 I know the season starts in about two weeks with Grand Prix in Sydney. You have the new car.
 Absolutely.
 You have a new set of drivers.
 Absolutely.
 I’m really excited, and good luck to you and the rest. Thank you very much.
 Thank you very much. Thank you. 
 So certainly very powerful story that puts a lot of things together, but most importantly it’s the speed and agility that Lotus Formula 1 is able to gain from their investment in technology, and also operate on about half the budget than a few other teams, and yet deliver amazing results, coming second in the last year of the competition.
Delivering amazing experiences, let’s talk a little bit what it actually takes to deliver those amazing experiences to the customers, and let’s talk about what are the most common customer interactions out there in the world.
First of all, it is marketing. Marketing is the most common way of engagement and interaction today. Marketing has gained a really new sort of place in the world of technology, and many new channels coming up and opening up, and many new opportunities. Marketing is certainly on the front lines.
And marketing smarter creates a unique opportunity to reach more people in the right time, truly engage them by matching their needs with the information you’re able to provide, so you don’t annoy them, yet you give them exactly what they need at the moment they need it.
And we certainly live through this every day. Sometimes we’re truly annoyed by those marketing messages that we receive from our suppliers, from our providers, and we turn it off. And then later during holiday season we wake up to say, wow, gee, I wish I received this message to know what promotions vendor A or B is offering today. And making this timing work with people is something that marketers in today’s world need to deliver.
Selling more effectively, it is amazing that most customer interactions are actually occurring in the selling cycle, either it’s direct selling or whether it’s selling through websites. And selling more effectively and really being effective in reaching your customers during the selling cycle is probably one of the most powerful tools to get to true business outcomes in those customer engagements.
And caring and supporting your existing customers is yet another very powerful, hugely important element of engaging customers and delivering those amazing experiences to them.
Lots of opportunities that technology gives us to support our customers through multiple channels, support them through multiple mediums. And yet at the same time, it creates an environment where customer complaints can go absolutely viral unless we control the environment and unless we stay on top of that, and really see what’s being said about us in the social media and all the other blogs and Internet-enabled ways to communicate.
And caring everywhere, caring through multiple channels, looking at those channels and supporting your customers so they essentially become your brand loyalists is very exciting, amazing opportunity, yet at the same time very important responsibility for us to take.
And at the same time, those customer-facing scenarios will only work if you are able to deliver amazing products or service by operating more effectively.
And that effective operation today in this rapidly moving world is more important than ever before, and this is another very important scenario in our ability to deliver amazing customer experiences.
But at the end of the day, this is a virtuous cycle. This is all those scenarios coming up and lighting up your environment, helping you become a dynamic business, helping you amaze your customers, helping you engage, nurture and delight them through the tools, mediums and channels that they select, helping you understand end-to-end what those customers feel, where they’re going, where they’ve been, what’s on their mind, and how can you make them more successful, how can you delight them so they can come back to you as repeat customers.
And, of course, all of that stands and must stand on a solid platform of technology and business. Lots of amazing scenarios we’re talking about are only possible through deep data analytics. Most of those technologies are only available through deep cloud investments. All of them are available only through deep business knowledge and models, and ability to connect different sets of data in a very powerful way. So bringing it all together and really making it connected is a very important part of this journey of becoming and delivering amazing customer experiences organizations.
So let me illustrate what we really mean about marketing smarter, selling effectively and caring everywhere by a few powerful examples. Let me talk about marketing, very powerful, very exciting part of the value chain, part of the delivery, also the place that has probably transformed the most in the last few years.
We certainly all read publications saying that the marketing budgets have ballooned, saying that the technology buying power has shifted from technologists to the marketers, and we all see that. 
And why is it happening? It’s very simple. It is the way and it is the most common way to reach your customers at mass, project your image and turn your customers into the brand loyalists.
The thing about marketing, I’m going to let you into a little secret, about 18 months ago the former head of marketing of Microsoft Business Solutions moved on to a different job, and I became my own chief marketing officer for about four months. That’s probably the most fun four months I ever had in my career. And to all the marketers people in the room, I truly envy you and the job that you have. I also thought that I did a pretty good job, so I wrote on my performance review back then, back that year, on what I did and how I really think that was a very exciting year for marketing of Dynamics. And in response my boss at the time, Steve Ballmer, wrote, I am really happy you hired Wayne.  Steve is no longer my boss, so I will never know what he really meant when he wrote it. But with that, ladies and gentlemen, let me invite back Wayne Morris, our chief marketing officer for Dynamics, who will show you the power of Dynamics marketing.
 Thank you, Kirill.
Thank you. I hope I’m not one of those annoying marketers.
 No, you’re not.
 Thank you.
You know, one of the issues with marketing is being that typically we’ve had to use a dozen or more tools to do all the things that we need to do in marketing. And what that’s meant is it’s diluted the productivity of marketing people, it’s kind of fragmented that use and experience, and that also translates into some of those annoying behaviors that we’ve had over time.
 Well, we need to reduce that and get to productive again, right?
 Absolutely. Why don’t we have a look here, so this is where I come in on my home screen here. And basically what we’re seeing here in one picture everything I need to know, how we’re doing in our spend, some of the things that I might have in terms of priorities, approvals, et cetera. And if we just have a look here, for instance, in the spend, I’m just going to make a couple of comments here, you know I’ve set a budget and I can see that 
 This is your true marketing budget, the way you look at it.
 Yes, it is, Kirill. Be gentle with me.
And you can see that right now, I’m about halfway through my spend. But you know as marketing, we have seasonality or patterns of spend based on timing of events, releases, launches, that sort of thing.
 This is going to go up.
 Well, you’ll notice the adjusted spend there. We’re about 200 percent of what we expected to spend so far.
 That’s factored in already.
 Yes, it is. So hopefully it will all be good in the end.
 All right.
 Now, one of the things I mentioned was all the different tools that we typically have. But what we’ve done here with Microsoft Dynamics Marketing is bring it all together so I can start with the plan. I can see my projects. I can look at the assets in media, I can do my budgets, et cetera. So here, for instance, under assets and media, all the collateral that I need, the ability 
 Yes, and the media planning, the media buying across multiple channels, et cetera. And then we can move into the execution part where I can see the campaigns that I’m running. I can manage my client list, customer list, vendors, et cetera. And that’s bringing this all together into one comprehensive solution.
So speaking about campaign executions, remember we’ve got a “Make Happy” campaign running, and maybe some of you saw the print and digital kind of assets to that. And really a campaign is just a process flow. What we’re doing in certain activities.
 So this is your campaign at a glance, basically.
 Yes, it is. And we can kind of drill into that and have a look a little bit more closely at some of the activities that we’re running.
So you can see here we’re running some activities against our highly valued customers, and you can see kind of the process flows we go across here. Some of those leads, we do leads going based on the engagement that we’re getting. Some we might want to pass straight to sale. Some we might want to do some nurturing.
I also have a second element, too, which is with strategic partners. So there you’ll see a different set of activities that we’re doing based on the kind of behavior that we’re looking for there. But you know it’s so easy to add to that. We might want to add, for instance 
 Let’s create a new campaign.
 OK. Let’s add a social media element to this particular campaign here. And I’m just going to drop that there. And then, by opening that up, I can come across here on the right, you can see that we have a couple of templates already set up.
So I’m going to pick the Dynamics CRM, and let’s just edit that.
And now here what we see is we’ve got the social media campaign kind of set up to go through Twitter, but let’s kind of get a little bit crazy, we might add Facebook and LinkedIn to that as well.
 I don’t think it’s crazy, I think it’s what most people would do. I did this morning promoting this show, actually.
 You can see we’ve set up the hashtags, we’ve got our message ready to go. So we can just go ahead and post that.
 All right. Let’s go ahead and do it.
 OK, let’s do it.
So now it’s out there, and hopefully we’re going to get a great response to it, because I know one of the things that I’m interested in, and I’m sure you are, too, is 
 So those folks who are posting those hashtags on Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, it’s up there for you to see.
 Absolutely.
So now one other important thing is to close the loop and look at are we really getting the return on the marketing investment that we’re making. And here is where I can drill in and get some insight. I can look by campaign, by channel, and by geography.
 So that’s really the money view.
 This is the money view.
 I think this is the place where marketing professionals have been lacking tools, certainly I learned in my four-month gig in doing this how little actually the world knows about the effectiveness of the marketing campaign.
 Yes. It’s gotten much better since then, by the way.
 All right.
 Now, I just mentioned social media. You can see here across the campaigns, and I’ve drilled into the Americas. One of the things that’s a little disturbing, you see this enterprise social campaign, it doesn’t look too good in terms of return on investment. So maybe we want to look at APAC here, as well, and again I’m seeing the same kind of pattern. So that’s pretty disappointing to me.
Well, let’s have a look at Europe. Now look at this, here’s the French, now I know the French are kind of a social community, but look they’re just getting so much better results than any other country.
 They’re certainly partying on in social tools. Now I need to look at what’s happening in those other geos.
 That’s what I’m going to do. I think what we need to do is go and have a look, is there a best practice that we could put across the different countries and really get improvements there, as well.
 So visual analytics through Excel Web Apps, served through Office 365, straight into Microsoft Dynamics marketing, which is part of Dynamics CRM 2013.
 Absolutely. So there you have a very comprehensive solution, everything from planning to the execution, being able to quickly manipulate and change. We make our people much more productive. We get that right engagement. We can measure the results. And this kind of a solution, it makes marketers happy.
 That’s great. Making marketers happy, isn’t that a tagline to use today?
 Definitely.
 All right. Thank you, Wayne. 
We’re really proud and excited to be able to bring this technology to market this spring. And what you saw from Wayne, Dynamics Marketing is going to be available later this spring in a very cost-effective manner. One thing that I found in my four-month marketing gig is that even those tools that are available are hugely expensive. And this is truly going to democratize the role of marketer and really make it easy and accessible to everybody in business.
Let’s talk about selling. Let’s talk about effective selling, driving results, winning faster, at the end of the day being able to close more deals and deliver more revenue. I know many of people here in the room and online deeply care about this area, whether it’s about selling online, or selling directly. The world has changed. It’s multi-modal. It’s multi-channel. The social engagement has deeply changed the interactions during the selling cycle. Very often our customers know more than our sales people when they engage them. Very often people have actually made their minds completely before they enter and engage in their selling cycle. And that certainly drives the need to transform the way we sell, the way we interact during this selling cycle so we can help our sales people close more deals.
So we thought that probably the most powerful way to illustrate how we can enable all of you, and thousands of more around the world, to sell more effectively, is by showing how we at Microsoft are now selling more effectively. And I would like to invite Judson Althoff who is the president of Microsoft North America to join me here and show how we do that.
 Hey, Kirill, how are you? It’s great to see you.
 Great to see you, too. Judson, this is your base.
 This is fantastic.
 Convergence is an international show, but most of the folks here are U.S. and Canada and use the president of this region. This is your crowd.
 Thanks for having me and it is truly an honor and a pleasure to be here with all of you. And I sincerely thank you for spending time with us here at Convergence.
 Judson has been with Microsoft for about a year. It’s been a year of very deep transformations inside the company; also in the way we sell.
 Absolutely.
 What’s changed?
 Well, it’s an exciting time, Kirill. And frankly, I will tell you that I believe there has never been a better time to be a Microsoft customer, partner and employee, because in many of the trends you talked about we have the explosion of devices, the cloud, big data and social that ties it all together, and our product portfolio enables us to really light up high-valued experiences for all of our customers. What’s really changed in terms of our selling process, though, is that we have really worked hard to enable the sales force to light up first-person experiences and share those with our customers to help them innovate new ideas to bring business value.
 We really make our people more productive, not just the process that drives it, people at the heart.
 Absolutely.
 All right. You want to show us what you do?
 OK. I’m not a demo guy.
 You’re not a demo guy. It’s not a demo. It’s how you do your work.
 I thought I would share this with you, because I believe in practicing what I preach. I won’t ask my customers to do what I won’t do myself. So I’m going to show you a little bit of how we use the products you’ve built to run my $25 billion business in North America. OK. So this is my favorite computer. This is the 82-inch.
 It’s large.
 It is. It’s a little hard to fit in an overhead bin. But, everything I’m about to how you will run on any Windows 8.1 tablet.
 That’s the problem with this computer; it’s actually showing the exact same view that you get on your tablet. 
 Absolutely. So let’s log in and get rolling. So what you see here is my home screen and this is a demo version of the dashboard I use each and every day to run my business. When I got here I was adamant with my staff that I wanted to have a singular dashboard that brought together Microsoft’s entire portfolio of products to help me run my business.
 It’s really Windows 8 becoming the point of integration of different tools that you use for business.
 Absolutely. And you see Live Tiles here pulling real-time information from Dynamics about my business. And so what’s great here is we’ve tied together over 20 systems within Microsoft IT, some of our legacy environments, our unified communications and productivity tools, my business scorecard, the marketing insights to get the outputs of all of the insights that Wayne showed you, the sales outputs from the marketing campaign, and where the rubber meets the road, the pipeline and forecast. I can drill into the forecast. And like I said, I’m not a demo guy and this is a real application. I can get a graphical view and we can see like the public sector folks maybe should start selling some more.
 They sort of stopped last month.
 Exactly, it’s hard when the government shuts down and doesn’t return your phone calls. In any case I can take a snapshot of the information straight from Dynamics. I can use Windows tools to share them graphically, dump a screenshot right into email, and I can ink all over this even with my busted thumb and tell people that, hey, listen, we need to focus on the business here.
 That’s great.
 So let me show you my favorite part of this thing. So I can go straight into my pipeline and look at my top deals, immediately go from the graphical view into a detailed view, and hit the record number and go straight into the record detail from Dynamics 2013.
 This is CRM put to use for Microsoft sales people. 
 CRM running against my business, fantastic things in 2013, by the way, highly intuitive, touch-enabled user interface. It can show me everything about my deals, built-in enterprise social with Yammer connectivity, and my favorite part, actually, is built-in social listening so I know what my customers are actually saying about my products. From here it also has Office 365 integration into PowerView and I can actually pull up a business intelligence view that gives me a  
 From within CRM you get all the analytics.
 Absolutely. It dumps millions of rows of data and paginates it into a graphical map view and shows me where my pipeline opportunities are. It’s a fantastic way to run the business.
 That’s great.
 It’s how I run Microsoft on Microsoft.
 All right. Well, that’s great to hear.
 There’s one more thing I’ve got to show you, though, which, like I said, this thing is a little hard to fit into an overhead bin.
 There you have it.
 So due to the power of the Windows platform I can actually put this thing on my Windows Phone and get the very same views about my business, drill into my top deals, get analytics about them, send real-time emails and connectivity back to my sales force, real-time, mobile access from the cloud, from Dynamics 2013.
 That’s fantastic, Judson. We’re really excited you’re now using this technology.
 Absolutely.
 Hopefully Microsoft is a better provider, better supplier and better partner for people in the room watching this show.
 Absolutely.
 All right. Thank you, Judson. I really appreciate it.
 Thanks a lot.
Thanks, all of you, sincerely, thank you.
 OK, 25 days in the quarter, go sell it.
 We will, thank you. 
 Well, you saw some powerful examples of Dynamics CRM 2013 that is now being deployed by thousands of organizations around the world. You saw Office 365. You saw Microsoft Cloud and Windows 8.1 really bringing this all together on a large screen and on a very small screen. You also saw Microsoft social listening that is being delivered later this spring as part of Microsoft Dynamics CRM, really serving the way for Judson and our sales people to see what is being said on social media and bring it into the context of selling, a very powerful tool, a tool that truly makes every sales person around the planet highly productive.
Let me talk about customer care, delivering this care everywhere across the channels. First and foremost, let’s just think about what people want to do when they are stuck, when they find a problem. It’s quite human for people to try to solve this problem by themselves before they actually call anybody. So ability to deliver self-service through whatever medium people use becomes very high priority in the area of customer care. And this is really the place where we have crossed an amazing chasm by bringing very innovative technology into Microsoft.
Last month we closed an acquisition of Parature. This is a highly innovative company, born in the cloud, that’s delivering self-service customer care to hundreds of customers around the world and through now being part of Microsoft, delivering that technology. We’ll be delivering that technology to millions of people around the planet.
At the same time, knowledge is probably the most important part of any customer care scenario and turning the customer care professionals and knowledgeable conduits into solving customer problems is the most important part in the call centers and everybody who is dealing with customer care scenarios.
We also know that call centers and customer care professionals is one part of the business where we often see the most churn and lots of new people come to work. So the need to train these people and make them highly productive quickly is another very important priority in that particular area of delivering an amazing customer experience. And today we will show you how Microsoft Dynamics CRM and Parature, working together, deliver that amazing experience through either self-service, or through knowledgeable customer care agents in a very productive, connected environment.
So Fred Studer, who is general manager of Marketing for Dynamics will join me here in a minute to show you how it all works together.
Fred.
 Kirill, thanks a lot.
 Thank you. I see your signature profile; you’re ready for the show. Isn’t it wonderful?
 I did not want to disappoint anybody.
 All right. Let’s go.
 As you said, customer care and delivering amazing customer experiences has never been more important. But, it’s never been more difficult, because Kirill there is a lot of new expectations, 67 percent of people want to do self-service care. So when you talked about the great Parature solution, that’s where I really wanted to start. So we’re going to start with one portal example, this is BusinessUSA.gov. And they’re whole  
 This is the real website of Business USA delivered to millions of small businesses in the United States.
 Exactly. So small businesses would come here to find out how they could get financing, and Parature is behind here. What they’ve done is they’ve organized and categorized all of their content.
 What do you mean behind this? How does it actually work?
 Yes, so Parature is just this great self-service care service that runs in the cloud and basically BusinessUSA.gov said, hey, we want that framework to help us run this. So they can get multi-channel capability to ask a question.
 The Parature widget is embedded in the Business USA website, but the Parature cloud is what powers those customer care scenarios.
 Exactly. So Business USA gets to keep their own branding. They get to do this exactly how they want. But, customers can actually interact in the way that they want. So let’s just say that I’m a small business and I want to talk about franchising. I can actually type that in here and Parature in the background is actually going out, looking at that knowledge base, and now I could actually bring that up. And notice not only am I getting that, but I’m getting all the blogs and different information.
 That’s fantastic.
 So great categorization of the information.
 So that’s the Web.
 That’s a portal, exactly.
 That’s one of the channels.
 Exactly.
 I’m sure there’s more.
 Well, here’s social. You talked about it. Everything is social. But, people don’t. Companies like Konami, who is one of Parature’s customers, they don’t want to lose their Web presence just because they go to Facebook.
 And this is real Konami Facebook presence?
 This is exactly the Konami page. So people here might know them from “Metal Gear Solid 5.” I actually know them, just like you do, from “Dance Dance Revolution.”
 You may. I don’t.
 Unfortunately, I guess my Beyonce has gotten a little crazy, because the left arrow on my mat is not working. Sorry, Kirill, got a little focused there. That’s why my mat is broken.
Now, because Parature is running this portal out of the box, I will say, we could go type it into the Facebook chat, and it would be routed to an agent. But I want to do self-service right from this portal. So what I’m doing now is I’m in the Facebook portal of Konami, but I can easily go contact Konami, I could start a Web chat. But just to really get to what I want, I want to go to Frequently Asked Questions, and just say: Mat not working.
 All right.
 And so as soon as I search this, Parature is going out and looking for that Frequently Asked Question, and it looks like somebody else is having that same issue. So I’m getting this knowledge-based record. And it looks like I just need to keep doing what I’m doing, which is shake it like a rug. So a great solution.
So what we’ve seen here is a self service around somebody’s portal, keeping the branding intact, but also being able to do that out of the box on Facebook, that’s where everybody is.
 Self-service takes you that far, I’m sure there are some examples of becoming a call center agent.
 Kirill, you know just like I do that sometimes just doing self-service might not be enough, because customers have problems that we need to be ready to solve. So what I’m showing you here is the Unified Service Desk. So this is something brand new that we’re announcing.
 This is coming this spring as part of Microsoft Dynamics CRM Update.
 Exactly, the Unified Service Desk. And what you see is that the agent has everything they need from the call scripts, very easy navigation, they have the same process routes so they can follow along. But the other thing that we’ve done is, most call center agents, just like the ones that you guys have, have 10 to 12 applications open at once. It’s very difficult. So we’ve integrated all of that capability in one Unified Service Desk.
 You don’t have to leave the screen, everything is here. I see everything is process-driven, like everything that we do in Dynamics across the team is process-driven. It’s quite exciting.
 Very familiar. And essentially I can just click these things and go. And I also have automation here. So when I start typing into things 
 Something is going on here.
 Well, Kirill, I’m sorry, I’ve got to get to work. We’ve got a customer calling. Hold on one second.
 Take care of your call.
 Yes, sir.
Hello, this is Fred. How may I help you?
 Hi, Fred. Hi, hey, can you help me? I’ve lost my credit card. I’m traveling. I need help. What can you do for me?
 Well, first off, am I talking to Oscar Giles?
 Yes, Phil, it is Oscar.
 Hi, Mr. Giles. Hey, just for security purposes can I get you to verify the last four digits of your Social?
 Yes, 3-5-4-2.
 That is terrific. Well, Mr. Giles, I’m so glad that you called us. I apologize that you actually had that inconvenience. I’m just pulling up some information that will help me solve your problem a little better. Hey, I notice that you’re actually in Reykjavik, Iceland.
 Yes, I am. How do you know that?
 Well, you know, we have these great systems. We use Dynamics CRM.  I love the fact that you’re in Iceland, so you should just stop worrying. We’re actually going to get you taken care of here. I know that you lost your card in Iceland, and so I am just going to see what we can do about that.
 What I realized is that we actually have an Iceland customer service center, and in fact it doesn’t look like it’s that far away from where you are. So what I’m going to do is, I’m just going to send you that link via email and send it to your text message, if that’s OK?
 Yes. Does that mean I can get it today?
 You can get it in the next hour, we’re going to have it there for you. But, in addition, I also notice that you’re one of our premier customers, and we actually have some travel offers in Iceland. So if you wanted to go take that dive in the blue hole, or whatever, you can actually do that. So I’m sending that link right now to you as well.
 That’s awesome.
 Well, terrific. Well, Mr. Giles, I hope that I’ve provided you with a good experience today.
 Fred, you’ve provided me an amazing experience. Thank you.
 And that’s what we aim to do. And, thank you, Mr. Giles, you take care. Have a great day in Iceland.
 Well, I think Mr. Giles is your friend for life now, Fred.
 I think he would. And, Kirill, I will point out one last thing. You might see it down here, but that little clock ticker, I was able to resolve that case in less than two minutes. So you talk about resolution, this is great.
 Outstanding. 
 So just to summarize, we actually showed all the great self-service capability, omni-channel with social, et cetera. And now we showed it all coming together in this wonderful Unified Service Desk. That is Care Everywhere, and that’s what our customers expect to deliver amazing customer experiences every time.
 Amazing experiences.
 Thank you very much. Have a great day everybody.
 Yet again today in today’s world of business, very few customer care agents can do what Fred just did here on stage with us. And with technology that’s coming to you this spring, with Parature, with Microsoft Dynamics CRM Unified Service Desk, all of you who take care of your customers on the phone or through social channels could have this type of response, this type of experience for your customers, truly turn them into your friends, into the loyalists of your brand really in a democratized way, in a highly available, accessible fashion to all of you.
Let’s talk about operations. Everything that we talked about so far, marketing, selling, taking care of existing customers is only possible if you are able to build, ship, deliver service. This is really the important part, this is really quite the phenomenal change that’s happening in the world, quite a change that I’m seeing as I visit our customers around the planet.
Many organizations are essentially expanding into adjoining industries, those who have traditionally been only manufacturers are now also transporting and storing and selling goods themselves. Those who were involved in wholesale distribution are now also opening retail stores. And this multi-industry and multi-vertical engagement truly calls for new tools and for new approaches.
It is amazing to me how often do we find lots of legacy systems that really robbed back office of an organization, and really bring them down to not allowing them to deliver this amazing vibrant experience for their customers. And we have to loosen import of Dynamics ERP, Dynamics NAV and GP for small and medium-size organizations, and Dynamics AX 2012 with large organizations. And with Dynamics AX 2012 R3, we’re really raising the bar of what the back-office system can do for an organization to truly move it forward to help them become dynamic business, to help it become digital enterprise, to help it serve their customers in a very unique and vibrant way.
So let me introduce our next guest, New Belgium Brewing, a company that’s doing amazing things by utilizing Microsoft Dynamics AX and also Microsoft Dynamics CRM. And let me start with a little video introduction.
Ladies and gentlemen, please join me welcoming onstage Kaitlyn and Travis. Welcome, come and join me, folks.
Welcome. Thank you for joining me today. What’s brewing in New Belgium Brewing Company? I see you have some devices with you. Is there something you want to show us?
 As far as what’s brewing, we have a lot of great beers coming out. We have a spring seasonal, Spring Blonde, new Snapshot full-time beer that we just launched, and we did a wood cellar expansion that’s really exciting right now.
 And you’re in IT, and yet you’re talking about real product.
 We do make beer, yes.
 I would expect nothing less when the product is beer.
 And as far as the company goes, last year we became 100 percent employee-owned. And so Travis and I can probably say that we truly do control our own destiny at New Belgium.
 Well, that’s great to hear. And Kaitlyn, you’re serving the people on the front lines, the people who actually touch the customers every day.
 Yes, exactly. And we’re using technology and mobility to enable our sales folks, the ones who touch it, and we call those guys our Beer Rangers.
 Beer Rangers, all right, that’s quite fitting.
 So we are enabling them to have real-time communications with our operations back at the mother ship in Fort Collins. And, more importantly, our Rangers allow us to have direct relationships with our customers. And that’s what I would like to show you.
You know, we use this Rangerland. Our Rangers go and do routine checks with our buyers and accounts. And so let’s check out staff across the 
 So that’s a Windows 8 app talking to your Dynamics CRM system?
 Right, exactly. So we’ll go to stats, it’s a bar graph of the convention center, and I presume that we’ll be seeing a lot of customers.
 I’m sure you will be.
 So our Rangers run in and did a routine check. They go in and they talk to the staff and make sure they have everything they need to sell our beer. And then, more importantly, as employee owners, quality assurance is very important to us. So do a quality check, and as we’re doing a check, we notice that there’s a problem with the labels. So immediately I want to make a note and alert the folks back at the mother ship. So I let Travis know that there’s a problem.
 So the mother ship is what we call the brewery back at Fort Collins, Colorado. So I notice that I have a message here that says we have an issue with 
 This is a Lenovo that people use on your show floor?
 Correct. So just 
 A brand-new, show-floor app.
 Yes, just as mobility 
   12 R3.
 Correct.
 That’s great to see.
 Just as mobility is important for our Rangers, mobility is important on the shop floor. So now I’m able to go into our manufacturing order, which we’re running Blue Paddle, employee favorites, and we want to make sure that we get this corrected right away. I can go in and stop the production order, and we can take care of that very quickly.
 So the production is stopped, hopefully not for long. The label is fixed.
 Hopefully not for long, yes.
 And the cycle goes on. That’s a great example, really great example showing unification of the front office, your Beer Rangers, and people who actually brew and product and bottle. That’s very powerful.
What’s next for New Belgium Brewing?
 We’re really excited, we’re building the new brewery in Asheville, North Carolina, that’s going to allow us to become a national brand. So we’re very excited to be bringing our beer to the East Coast shortly.
 And it’s technology that is a key component to our continued success and growth.
 That’s great to hear.
 And should we toast to that?
 Well, success, we should always toast.
All right. Well, I must tell you, I don’t often drink beer, especially at 10 a.m. in the morning, but when I do, New Belgium is certainly my choice. Cheers. To your success, guys. 
Thank you all very much. Please enjoy the rest of your beer, and enjoy the show, and I’ll join you a little later.
Very powerful example. I think we’ve talked a number of times now that uniting front office and back office, and really making this unification help organizations become digital enterprises, become dynamic business, that comes true through the example like New Belgium Brewing.
Every year at Convergence we celebrate success of our customers. About 250 customers were nominated and a very special hard-working committee selected the excellence award winners. And today we’re really proud and excited to celebrate success of those organizations that are here. And many of them are here in the room. Let’s give them a round of applause for employing technology to great use. Thank you folks, and congratulations.
We also had an opportunity to spend good quality time with our excellence award winners, and some other marquee customers to understand what business outcomes they actually gained from deploying our technology and from using Microsoft Dynamics. And you see those statistics. They’re absolutely staggering, 244 percent return on investment; 50 percent reduction of TCO; amazing growth of revenue; employee adoption, something that has really historically been a big problem in the world of ERP and CRM now is dramatically improved through the use of Microsoft Dynamics. We’re really proud of those results that our customers were able to get to by deploying our technology.
Now, there’s one of our excellence award winners who is actually here to receive their award in person, and we would like to show this story and really tell this story to the world, because I think the story is truly amazing. This excellence award winner actually doesn’t really need a whole lot of introductions. They’re based here in Atlanta. Many of you used their services to get to Atlanta for this show. And their case of using the technology is truly amazing.
Let’s roll the video please.
Ladies and gentlemen, please join me welcoming on stage Theresa Wise, who is senior vice president and CIO of Delta Airlines, and Meleia who is the flight attendant.
First, I want to give you your award. Congratulations. Thank you for being here to receive it in person. Thank you so very much, and it’s good to see you again.
Please join me, let’s have a little chat.
So I think the world knows by now, and many of the people actually had a chance to experience what Microsoft technologies end-to-end were able to do for Delta. And, Theresa, perhaps we’ll start with you. It’s a major transformation, 20,000 flight attendants, pilots are getting a new technology. What does it take to get this transformation moving in a large organization like Delta?
 You know, I think it really starts with a vision, and it starts with a partnership with a partner such as Microsoft. In fact, this original vision started with a visit to your Redmond offices and a look at I believe it was a retail center of the future was really the origin of this opportunity. And so once that vision is there, it’s been continuing with those partners with a great case, a great opportunity, and really that continuous focus on our customer and what’s necessary to improve the experiences over and over for the customers of Delta.
 You are certainly an organization that is on the front lines serving those customers around the world. So global comes to mind as a sort of very true sort of coming to life in your case.
 So worldwide this is an application that can serve in just a lot of different ways. So it is starting as a point of sale opportunity, being able to sell product on a flight, but what comes next is really what’s exciting, ways to further engage with our workforce, which is a global workforce, which is a mobile workforce. And beyond that looking at how can we further use this device as well as the applications on it to continue to engage with customers in new and different ways.
 That’s amazing. And, of course, the case for change, I know there are many CIOs in the room, many IT people in the room, what can you share with them in terms of driving the case for change in the organization?
 You know, the case for change, Delta, really all airlines, have been long users of technology in really important ways. Historically, technology was used for planning, it was used for efficiency, it was used to distribute our product. But really the case for change I believe as we go forward is how to further engage with customers, using technology to create a seamlessness and a stickiness with both our customers as well as our colleagues throughout the world on the front lines.
 So it sounds pretty simple, customer engagement and customer experience is the case for change.
 That is the No. 1 case for change.
 It’s certainly reassuring for this group to hear.
Now, Meleia, you’ve been flying for a number of years.
 Thirty-eight.
 Wow.
 Congratulations. That’s amazing.
 You must have started when you were five.
 Bless you.
 And I see you’re holding the device, the device which you use at work every day. I know many people had a chance to see those devices if you fly Delta, but let’s take a quick look at what’s going on there.
 OK. I’ll show you the things that our flight attendants use the most. This is our sales app up here. Also we now have access to Fly Delta, which is great. Now we give our customers information in real time on board. That’s something that we’ve never had previously. And then also company email, probably another one of the items our flight attendants use the most, otherwise we didn’t have access to anything unless we were sitting in front of a computer. A mobile workforce with a mobile device, it’s a great combination.
I’m just going to go into the sales app real quickly, show you our onboard sales. Our flight attendants go into our products. It’s going to show them products that are market-specific and in it’s going to allow us to actually bundle products. We’re offering things online now that we could never  or I’m sorry, not online, but onboard, that we couldn’t do before. One of the best things on here is economy comfort. It used to be that we’d take off, if we had empty seats those seats stayed empty. Now at 10,000 feet, because of this device, we’re going to make an announcement, ladies and gentlemen, I have three empty economy comfort seats, would somebody like to buy an upgrade? So we’re definitely moving forward. It’s helping us capture revenue that we didn’t have before.
 All right. That’s fantastic and so it’s truly the case where technology is transforming your life, and you’re accustomed to very different tools in your 38 years of flying. What’s this change doing for your work every day?
 I think just the instant access to information has been a huge boost to our flight attendants, not only the information that they need from the company, but the information that we share with our customers. So to have access to that information, I think, one of the most telling features of this is that we have 20,000 flight attendants that range in age from 21 to 89. And that’s a huge testament to the ease of use of the Windows 8 platform that we’re using onboard.
 All right.
Theresa, anything to add?
 I would say also perhaps one of the most happy surprises that we went through, as a part of this, was the ease of that transition. Again, with the huge range of experience, I believe you were a flip phone user, weren’t you, prior to this device?
 I admit it, September 1st of last year I gave up my flip phone and finally bought a smartphone.
 All right, outstanding. 
 And having gone from being a flip phone user to being really one of our predominant people using this technology, again, drives towards the ease of that transition beyond what I would have imagined. So it’s really exciting.
 That is truly phenomenal, really huge thank-you for being our customers, for being our partners. We certainly think of it as a partnership and we look forward to continue this relationship. There is so much more we can do for pilots, helping flight attendants get rid of those bulky manuals and put them on this Nokia device and really move forward with the technology.
Thank you so very much for being with us.
 Thank you.
 And congratulations on your award.
 Thank you so much.
 Thank you, Theresa.
 Thank you, Kirill.
 All the best, thank you so much. 
What an amazingly powerful example, these services in this particular case delivered from private cloud with Dynamics AX 2012, devices, Nokia 1520 and 800 series, and 500 series for some, and all wrapped together by this powerful technology.
Of course, the project like Delta could not be even remotely possible without engagement from our partners. We are really proud and excited to have the most vibrant ecosystem that serves the needs of our customers and delivers our technologies to them. Customers who are small, customers who are large, served by partners who are really catering to their unique needs. And for very sophisticated, deep engagements like Delta, partners like Accenture and Avanade come together with Microsoft to deliver this technology.
Ladies and gentlemen, today we have the pleasure to welcome Robert Wollan, who is global managing director responsible for sales and marketing at Accenture to share with us how Accenture and Avanade participated in the Delta project, and more.
Robert, please welcome. 
 Thank you.
 I’m very happy you were able to join us here today. It’s an amazing event and obviously the partnership between Microsoft, Microsoft Dynamics and Accenture has been quite amazing in the last few years. It would be fair to say that Accenture and Avanade for many of our customers are go-to partners, go-to partners for deployments like Delta.
 Absolutely. It’s great to be here. It’s going to be a great event.
 It is a great event. So what’s important for Accenture today?
 Well, I think we’re seeing a real surge at both Accenture and Avanade in this point you brought up about business outcomes, with a real focus on speed, and speed to those business outcomes has become a real critical focus. And I think at the same time we’re seeing a surge in interest in companies to take advantage of these new digital capabilities, become truly digital businesses.
 Of course, you’re a global business, serving the global community, and you’re one of the few who can serve companies like Delta, who really have employees all over the world.
 Yes, I think a real interest point over the last couple of years; we’ve seen these programs truly become global. I mean this great example of Delta rolling out a program that hits so many different markets, so many different kinds of workforces, so they become truly global, or automotive companies who are looking to roll out programs at 40, 50, 100 markets simultaneously, and across many different channels, so marketing and sales programs that are really dominant. So that truly global program is becoming more common.
I think the other thing that’s happening is we’re seeing an increase in the acceleration of these programs at scales of 20, 30, maybe even 50,000 individuals within a year. You think that, it’s a major change, but also a major opportunity that these kinds of digital capabilities are helping us to bridge.
 Now, of course, the partnership with Microsoft and Accenture has been going on for a number of years. Avanade is our joint venture helping deliver Microsoft technologies to our partners. But, Accenture is the partner. There are lots of different technologies that you’re able to touch in your daily work, especially serving the selling and marketing communities around the world. Can you share your observations about Microsoft Dynamics and what you see with Dynamics sort of moving into this world?
 I think it’s an exciting time. It’s an exciting set of toolsets that are allowing companies to really bring together these various functions in a more integrated way. Maybe five years ago we’d say were companies playing in this space, were they doing analytics, were they thinking about the cloud, mobility, social connections, all these things we talked about earlier? Now we’re starting to see a real interest in those companies who are not just playing, but the real gap between the companies who are playing to win, versus the companies who are playing not to lose. And that’s the part that we’re going to see very much what we consider the disruptors. And we’re seeing secondarily these kinds of tools, like Dynamics, are helping companies really think about how they can fight back against these new entrants in their market.
Think those traditional, strong brands that are represented well in this room today and already are using Dynamics, are looking to say how do I take advantage of those capabilities and my scale so I’m not disrupted? In fact, I’m going to be the disruptor to my industry. So all those are capabilities we need to go after.
 That’s great. And I’m really excited about the partnership with the Microsoft Dynamics part of Microsoft and Accenture in particular.
Now, ladies and gentlemen, Robert will hold a special signature session as part of our leadership track, and has a lot to share in the world of selling and marketing with all of you. So I encourage you to attend. It’s going to be a great track.
Robert, thank you for joining us.
 Very good.
 Thank you for your partnership and I’ll look forward to many more projects and engagements like Delta in the future.
 We are.
 Thank you so very much.
 Thank you all.
Very good to see you again, Kirill. 
 All right, thank you.
Now, at this event we talk about Dynamics for human connections. True human connections certainly go beyond, way beyond the world of technology. For Microsoft it’s been a 30-year tradition to help those who are less fortunate through our giving. We give money, last year Microsoft raised over $120 million in our campaign. We give our time. And we also help those who are less fortunate through technology. So let’s take a look at how one organization puts Dynamics to work to improve and change lives every day. Let’s roll the video, please.
Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome Matthew, who is head of operations for City Harvest; and James, who is head of IT. Please welcome, you guys.
 Thank you.
Thank you.
 What an amazing cause, and I’m sure it’s not easy and if you think about the complexity of operations, it certainly takes a lot.
 It certainly takes a lot. It’s true, our mission is quite simple, we rescue food that would otherwise be lost in the supply chain, and we deliver it to New Yorkers who are hungry. The business model is quite complex, and so we use Microsoft Dynamics CRM to manage the 4,000 food donors, and the 500 community food programs that we deliver food to seven days a week. And the technology that we’ve been using has allowed us to double the amount of food in the past three years to over 46 million pounds.
 That’s quite phenomenal.
And you take no money from taxpayers.
 No, we’re a completely privately funded nonprofit enterprise. And we have a responsibility to our financial donors to make every dollar go as far as it can. And so we’re using technology to become more efficient, drive down the cost per pound to rescue and deliver a pound of food to the nearly 2 million New Yorkers who face hunger every year.
 That’s phenomenal.
The IT engine room, and obviously to make this operation work and to support it, I’m sure your IT budget is pretty small?
Yes. So we made the decision early on to leverage cloud where it’s possible. So the ease of integration between Dynamics CRM, Office 365 and on-premise Dynamics GP module that we use, such as General Ledger, Accounts Payable, Inventory Management, allow us to manage expenses, inventory, and use our financial donor dollars the most efficient way possible.
 So CRM Online in the cloud, plus not in the cloud Dynamics GP on-premise, your guarded financials are on-premise all working together.
 Yes.
 That’s great to hear. What a phenomenal example, what a phenomenal case, and let me tell you how proud I am to be able to serve your needs and really help you connect your donors and suppliers and recipients with our technology.
Anything else you want to share with the group here?
 Well, just that if people are interested in finding out more about City Harvest, they can visit our website, CityHarvest.org, and they can even make financial donations right online.
 All right. Glad to hear it, glad to help.
 Thank you.
 All right. Thank you, Matthew. Thank you, James. Thank you for joining us, and thank you for doing such amazing, amazing work for the community. Thank you really so much.
It’s an amazing time in our industry. It’s an amazing time in the world where technology is really helping us connect and move into the future with more confidence, with more precision, to help us all move into the digital world and become digital enterprises. It is also a new era for Microsoft with our new CEO, with amazing innovations that’s coming to you this spring with the continuous wave of technologies, but most importantly with end-to-end solutions through Microsoft cloud that help you expand and move into the future.
It is our commitment to you to help all of you to tame those forces that shape the industry, to help all of you to become dynamic businesses, to help all of you to become digital enterprise.
To all of our customers who are here, and I know this is the majority of the group, I want to thank you for entrusting your business to us. I want to thank you for being our customers. And I hope that Convergence 2014 will serve as a reassurance to you and your shareholders that you made the right choice.
To those who are making a decision to join the Dynamics Customer Community, to our prospects, and I know there are many of you here as well, I truly hope that this week will help you make the right choice, and I truly hope to see you at Convergence 2015 as our customers.
To our partners, our commitment to you is invarying. We cherish our relationship. Our partner ecosystem is what makes us unique and enables us to deliver our solutions at scale to all the industry verticals across the globe. We’re truly proud of the work that you do for our customers.
And, of course, for industry and press who are here, for our friends and families who are watching us online, help us share the world. Microsoft is here with the cloud, with Microsoft Dynamics, we are changing the world. We are making technology for everybody to help every single person in business and in the world to move forward in the digital world with the digital revolution.
Thank you all so very much. Please enjoy Convergence 2014.
 Thank you. Right on. Stand up. 
What a phenomenal day. Thank you so much. It is an incredible honor to be able to feel the energy in this room. I’m going to start by making a big, bold statement. I’m going to take a chance, because I think in this room I can take a chance. 
Today, Microsoft and everyone who is a part of We Day are going to become best friends forever.  Hold on. Hold on. We haven’t talked about what it really means to be a BFF, right?
So first it means we’re going to spend time together, because don’t you want to spend time together with your BFF? Of course you do.  So, as Craig said, we’re a sponsor here. But what you might not know is, we’re going to be a sponsor here for the next three years.  So we’re going to be spending a lot of time together, we BFFs. 
The second thing about being a BFF, you care about the other person. You invest in them. You talk to them. We’re going to invest in you. We talked about YouthSpark, a program that Microsoft runs to help kids invest in their community. 
You saw the amazing technology in that video, people who couldn’t see can see again. People who couldn’t hear can use technology to hear. People who can’t touch people in other countries can touch them. People can see babies being born and not being there. Technology is amazing. It’s an investment we keep making, and we will continue to make. That doctor, he was using a Kinect. Most of you see that Kinect as a videogame thing. Its technology is much, much more than that.
So from our side of our BFF friendship, we’re going to invest in you, and we’re going to invest in technology to make your dreams become reality.  But the third part is what you’re going to do, and what you’re already doing. BFFs connect  that’s right forever  BFFs share with each other. They have things in common. And what do we have in common, we want to change the world, we want to make an impact, we want to do things that other people don’t think can be done. We have technology and we have passion.
Whether you are Delana, who despite having an incredible course load mentors kids at her school, and then takes that more globally and supports mentoring outside the U.S.; or whether you’re Natasha, who is from our    that was Natasha, whether you’re Natasha, who is from Armenia and was able to see the devastation of an earthquake and turn that into good by supporting causes that put together relief for her area, or whether they put together filtered water bottles for Ethiopia, those are the kind of things you can make happen; or whether you’re the Cedar Crest High School Random Acts of Kindness Club  when you are BFFs, you share things in common.
And what we share is wanting to change the world. We’ll be together. We’ll invest in each other. We’ll share a common purpose, and we’ll be here for a long time. So show me some love my BFFs. 
Thank you.
 Good morning, everyone, and welcome to our press briefing. It’s a real pleasure and a privilege to have a chance to represent team Microsoft today. 
It’s day 52 for me; who’s counting?  It’s been just an amazing five weeks or so for me. And it’s perhaps the most striking thing for me has been how in spite of having spent most of my adult life, 22 years at Microsoft, you see things from a very fresh set of eyes and a fresh perspective, and relearn the place in some sense. 
And I think TS Elliott captured it best when he said that you should never cease from exploration, and at the end of all exploring you arrive where you started and know the place for the very first time. And for me that has been more true than ever before.
And today marks that beginning of exploration for us. Our customers want to know where we are going, what is our innovation agenda, and our team is really ready for it. We want to talk about one aspect of our strategy going forward. It’s a very important aspect and over the course of the next couple of weeks and couple of months we will come back, and many other leaders on our team will come back and talk about other aspects. And in all of that you will see what the new core for Microsoft is and what our innovation agenda is. And most importantly, what I want to key in on is what we as a company can uniquely do to serve our customers better.
And everything that we do going forward is grounded in this worldview, which I describe as the world of ubiquitous computing and ambient intelligence. It’s an amazing canvas for innovation and it’s an amazing opportunity for growth for our company.
When you think about the canvas itself there are three aspects that really jump out. The first one is the world in the next five years and the 10 years is not going to be defined by the form factors that we know and love today but the variety of form factors that will come to be over the coming years. If you think about the co-evolution of silicon, hardware systems and software will birth many new form factors at a pretty rapid pace, and that will just make computing ubiquitous.
The second thing is that pretty much everything we do is going to be digitized. That means every interaction we as humans have with other humans, every interaction that we have with machines, and the interactions between machines is all going to get digitized more rapidly than ever before in our history.
And all that leads to perhaps the most important trend of all, which we’re at the very beginning phases, which is to reason over all that digitized information with vast amounts of capability like machine learning in real time, and to really take all that insight you get by reasoning over that data, and improve the fidelity of those very interactions, improve what you can do as humans with machines, between machines, and what have you.
So that to me is the future that we are building towards. And we describe this and you see it today in the growth of the number of users who are connected to the Internet. They all have devices. And when I say devices, I mean pretty broadly. It’s the phones that you carry, it’s the tablets, it’s the big screens that you interact with, it’s the sensors in the room that you enter, and that is what’s going to be everywhere. And then all of these things also have applications. 
So that exponential growth across connected users, connected devices and applications is what is leading to this growth of the cloud.
Now, we describe this, and I talked about this in my first mail to all Microsoft employees as a mobile-first, cloud-first world. And like any place that’s got predominantly computer scientists, I get back this mail saying, hey, look, how can two things be first? I mean, do you have a problem with ordinal numbers or something?  
And the reality is it’s one and the same. It definitely is that cloud that is not connected to devices is just latent potential because how does the cloud interact with the real world? It is through by being able to get to devices. It could be a sensor, it could be a mobile device, it could be a tablet, it could be a big screen in a conference room or a living room. And likewise, a device which is not connected to the cloud just cannot complete the scenarios. 
So to us it is one and the same, and it’s the magical coming together of the cloud and the mobile, that’s really the topic that we want to talk about today. It’s that intersection that we want to talk about today.
And when we think about the Microsoft cloud for mobility or mobile scenarios, there are two very unique things that we bring to the table, and that’s pretty much going to drive everything that you’ll see us talk today and do going forward as well.
The first one is that we think about users, both individuals and organizations, spanning across all devices. So that is one aspect that you will see us stress a lot. And second is the coming together of the three key constituents that make all this magic happen; that is end users, developers and IT professionals. Microsoft has always been about bringing those three constituents together with platforms and applications, and we now do that in a mobile-first, cloud-first world, and that’s our pursuit, that’s our innovation agenda, and that’s what you’ll hear us talk a lot about.
So first thing is about people. At the end of the day, if you look at our daily life, we have a set of activities that we do. We could be reading, we could be capturing, we could be listening, collaborating, organizing, researching. These are all activities that we do across a variety of devices. We’re not bound, in fact, to one device, one place or one time. And the real goal for us is to step up to provide the applications and services that empower every user across all of these devices and all of these experiences. So that’s perhaps the job No. 1 that we do, which is to empower people to be productive, do more across all devices.
The second thing is around developers. Developers are looking for their canvas to innovate, their opportunity to innovate, and they want to be able to complete these very same scenarios that Microsoft is working on, and to be able to build on other people’s work. 
So that means they want a very rich surface area for what it is that they want to create, and to be able to build on what we have done. They want to be able to span consumer scenarios and business scenarios. They want to be able to tackle the hard problems that exist in supporting multiple platforms. They want to be able to scale their business seamlessly as they have more customers. 
So these are all the hard challenges for developers that we’re stepping up to solve and empower developers to build applications that in turn allow individuals and organizations to be more.
And then the last constituent here is the IT professional. Now, there was a study done by Forbes, it’s a survey that was done by Forbes where they went and surveyed all the tough jobs, or more importantly I guess the most stressful jobs, and one of the things that made it was executives and CEOs made that list for sure, but also journalists and PR professionals made that list. But the one constituent that I think they missed was the IT professional. 
If you think about what is happening today with the proliferation of devices and trends like bring your own device, as well as bring your own application or SaaS applications into the enterprise, perhaps the toughest challenge for the IT professional is to be both empowering the end user to be able to do what they want to do, and at the same time protecting the corporate asset. And that challenge of being able to take a people-centric approach and yet allowing the IT professional to be a hero when it comes to protecting the corporate asset is what we want to step up to really do.
So it’s this coming together that we refer to as a cloud for everyone and every device. And today’s briefing is all about giving you what is I would say the first step on a journey of making this a great innovation vector for all of Microsoft.
And to give you a more in-depth feel for a lot of what we have today, both in terms of demos and context, and then I’ll come back and talk about it but at first I wanted to have Julia White give you a good demo of everything that we are talking about today. Thank you, Julia.
 Thanks. Yep, absolutely.
So in this cloud-first, mobile-first world, Microsoft is absolutely focused on empowering people to get more done wherever they need to and on any device. So now I get a chance to show you what Microsoft’s doing to help people do more on the device they choose, helping IT secure and manage those devices, and provide a rich development platform in the cloud to develop apps so we can all do more.
Now, to start this I’m going to go to my iPad. Now, Microsoft is absolutely committed to creating great mobile applications, and you see on my iPad we already have a number of apps, right? I have my Yammer app, Lync, Dynamics, Bing, Skype, OneNote, and one my favorites, OneDrive.
So let me go ahead and open that OneDrive app. And thanks to cloud storage with OneDrive, I have access to all my content on all my devices, including of course my iPad. And I can get access to it right away.
So I’m going to go ahead and open this Word document here, and you’ll see it brings it up in the native viewer. But unfortunately, this is what happens. My doc actually has a table of contents. It’s gone. My graphics are on top of my text. And if I scroll down, I see that there’s a bunch of text kind of jumbled on the side. I can’t even read it at all. If I only had the real Office for iPad, I could get more done. 
Well, it turns out as of today you do. So approximately 11:00 Pacific Standard Time Office for iPad goes live in the app store, very specifically Word, Excel and PowerPoint live for everyone to download and enjoy.
And as you can see, this is Word on the iPad. And as you’d expect, my document looks amazing. There’s my table of contents. If I scroll down, you can see there’s embedded graphics, even my footnotes, everything looks perfect. And if I go down, you can see I even have tables and charts right here in my Word document. And as you’d expect with Office, I have my ribbon, so it’s very familiar, and I have all the very satisfying features that you’d expect in Office, of course.
Now, this is unmistakably Word, but it’s also very natural on the iPad. And this is a design paradigm we balanced to make sure these are great, familiar Office applications but also wonderful on a touch and iPad experience. And that way we know all of our users can be comfortable using these apps and be confident right away to get more done.
Now, it’s also very easy for me to interact with my content, of course, and I can just select in here and I can grab that. And you see right when I select text, in a touch friendly way I get all of my key navigation, cut, copy, paste. I can even hit define, bring my dictionary right in. But I can also do all the formatting I might want. I have bold, italicize, underline. 
But I can do even more rich things, too. For example, there is my themes menu, and you see just a little subtle thing but I want to draw your attention to it. You see how I have my keyboard up and I have my themes menu. And it’s shortened so that it doesn’t kind of overlay my keyboard or go behind my keyboard, right? So if I close my keyboard, there you see all my options render. It’s a little thing but it’s a nice example of the fit and finish and the care we’ve taken to make this a great Office experience.
Now, I can also interact with these charts as an example. Now, these I actually created in Excel, and I pulled it into my Word document, but even in Word I can interact with it. And you see that great Office experience of when I touch the chart I got my chart menu right here. And so you can see that I can even in Word, coming from Excel, I can do different formatting, I can do different styles. So I have again that rich Office experience people know and love.
And then let me go down and actually show you how easy it is to interact even with like rich photography.
So let me touch on that and you have this nice, big touch handle, so I can just zoom in, I can resize, get just the look I’m going for. And then I can actually just reflow that, and look how the text just moves right around that picture. So I can do really sophisticated layouts, again all in touch.
This is an example of something no one but Office can do, and this is why our 1 billion Office users love Office and can’t live without it. And now they get it on the iPad, too.
Now, another thing, as I’m doing this, making these beautiful design elements and making my Word document perfect, I can also be confident that as I move across my PC, my Mac, my phone, the browser, everything looks just as I wanted it, because it’s the promise of Office. We keep that file fidelity so everything always looks exactly as I want it, and I never lose content.
Now, creating beautiful content is certainly important but so is collaborating, right? And so that’s why we built co-auth right into these Office apps, just like we have in all of our Office applications.
So if I go up, and you can see that I actually have five people editing this document right now. Now, it’s saved in OneDrive, right, so we have one master source of the truth, and we’re all editing it right now in real time. And it helps us collaborate so much more efficiently.
And also the other part of OneDrive is because everything is saved to the cloud by default, if I’m making edits on the go, everything is saved. I never have to worry about losing anything as I’m making my edits.
The other part of certainly collaborating is I want to be able to do rich reviewing and kind of see all the markup and stuff. So, of course, with Office you can do that. So let me go ahead and turn on my markup, and then you can see that I have things like redlines and edits and even threaded comments, so I can have that great rich Office editing and reviewing experience, too, on the iPad.
All right, so now let’s go to Excel, because, you know, the iPad has a reputation of helping you kind of look cool, but now with Excel it can help you look smart, too.
So here I have my graphs. Everything looks great, of course, because it’s in Excel. And if I swipe over, you can see even sophisticated things like my sparklines in this app, too.
And thinking about how to interact in touch even with financial and numerical information we’ve been really thoughtful about that. So if I tap in here and I want to make an edit, you see my keyboard comes up. But notice this, if I go to my numbers keyboard, it’s actually a custom numeric keyboard for Excel that makes it just easier to do equations and formulas, again another example of that nice touch we did to make sure this is a fantastic Office experience.
So now I want to say I want to add a zero and do that. And you’ll see my chart automatically updates. It’s all connected like you’d expect with Excel. But I can also do rich visualizations. So here I’m in my chart menu. I could change the styles, I could change the types. Maybe I want to go see what the pie charts look like.
But one of my favorite features, and unique to Office on the iPad, is I actually get recommendations. So the app’s helping me suggest what might look good. And you see these aren’t just examples, this is actually my data. This is a preview of what my chart’s going to look like before I select it. So let me go ahead and just grab that pie chart; that simple, all in touch. I didn’t use a mouse and keyboard for any of this, but I was able to interact with even quantitative information in Excel.
And hopefully by now you see this is definitely not the ported Windows app to an iPad, and it’s certainly not the iPhone app, right, running in 2X. These are uniquely built for the iPad, fantastic Office, great touch experience.
All right, now let’s go to PowerPoint, take a look at that.
And as you’d expect, of course, everything looks beautiful. All of my imagery is there, and it’s also very easy for me to interact with it, with touch again. Let me just go ahead and insert that picture of San Francisco that I need, and I’ll do that. And again those nice big touch handles, I can just zoom down, get it just where I want it. And even again, because it’s Office, I can do all of my picture style designs. Look at all those options, right? So I can add the shadow and make it look just right. 
And, of course, PowerPoint is also about presenting, and we expect people to do a lot of presentations with PowerPoint on the iPad. And as I go in, you can see my animations look great, my beautiful transitions are there, see everything kind of flows in, and again really natural in a touch design. And, of course, even that awesome origami transition that you need, everyone can’t live without that.
But we’ve also done some cool things that are unique to just this app on the iPad, things like if I touch and hold I actually get a laser pointer. So as I’m presenting, I can really call attention to what I’m talking about. Or similarly I can actually even go and annotate. So let me grab this yellow, and maybe I want to call attention to this or how this is rolling up. So again it gives you some neat tools in a touch environment to really have a more impactful presentation.
So hopefully it’s given you a great example of how rich these Office for iPad apps are. But it turns out I use a lot of devices in my life, and I want that great Office experience and my content available everywhere I go. And that’s the promise of Office 365, that I have my great Office experience on all my devices: PC, Mac, phone, browser and, of course, iPad.
So I’m now going to go over to this amazing 82-inch Perceptive Pixel device, a giant tablet of sorts, and show you that same presentation I was just working on, on the iPad. And, of course, because it’s all saved in OneDrive, I have one source of the truth, and as I go out and I open it you’ll see that picture of San Francisco that I just dropped in. If I go to that slide, there it is, and it looks great, again the promise of Office 365 across all of my devices.
Now, the Office for iPad apps have a freemium business model. So that means today everyone on the planet with an iPad can go download these apps and use for free the ability to read and present your Office content.
Now, with an Office 365 subscription users have the ability to both create new Office content and do all the editing they’d like on their iPad app. So that means effective today our Office 365 subscribers have the full capabilities of the Office for iPad app, joining the application experience they have on their PC, Macs, phone and browser.
And as we move forward, you’ll see us bring beautiful Office experience, touch-first into the Windows Store, as well as other popular platforms. So this is really just the beginning.
Now, let’s switch gears for a second, because Satya talked about the IT pro and that hard, stressful job they have managing users and devices and more cloud services, and expectations are only going up, right? And that’s why it’s so important that Microsoft’s also helping IT manage all of this and empower their employees while maintaining security for the business.
So to show this, I’m going to walk over to my Samsung Android tablet. And for the companies who are enabling what they call a bring your own device strategy where employees can bring whatever devices they have and get work done on them, Microsoft has Intune, which is our cloud-based, mobile device management solution. And what Intune does is provide a company portal for employees to log in and get access to the mobile apps and manage their devices that they need.
So here I am in my company portal on my Android device, and you see I have all the apps that IT has provided to me and recommending that I use, but it’s also where I can manage my devices.
So if I go there, you see I have lots of devices I’m using to get my job done, and as a user I can manage them in a self-service way right here. 
So maybe I got a new iPhone and I want to give my old iPhone to my daughter. Well, right here I can go in, I can open my configuration, and I can actually wipe or selectively remove just the business information, the business apps, the business content. But what stays on that iPhone are my personal pictures, my contacts. That way I can just get all the business information off but keep the personal aspects, again all in a self-service way from the company portal.
So if I go back to apps here, you see this is actually a curated set of apps my IT’s recommending. And this can be customized to me, so it could be unique to my job and my function.
And you have lots of different kinds of applications. We have line-of-business apps like my Contoso app that my company has built for me and provisions here, also links to public apps in the app store, as well as Web Apps as well, so manages all different kinds.
And you see Microsoft has a number of apps for Android as well, too. There’s our Bing, Skype, OneNote. 
And let’s say I want to get some work done, so I’m going to go into my Dynamics app, and that’s going to take me to the public app store where I can download that.
Now, the benefit of installing this from the company portal is that I as an employee know that this is the right app. I don’t have to worry about if this is the one we’re supporting, is the one my business uses. I have the confidence that this is the one my IT shop wants me to use.
And also for IT I know my users are going to get the right app and not install the wrong one and then, of course, call me and bother me with that information. So it’s great for both sides.
Now, we’ve been working, of course, to help people with the bring your own device approach for a little while, but now we’re moving into a frontier of helping IT manage when employees want to bring whatever cloud service they need to get their work done, which is increasingly the situation. And IT, of course, needs a way to manage access and identity with all these different cloud services their employees are using. And this is where Azure Active Directory comes into play, offering cloud-based identity and access management. 
And as many of you know probably, 90 percent of enterprises use Active Directory on-premises today, but now we offer that same capability in our cloud-based way with Azure.
And to show that, I’m going to go over to my PC and my browser, where I’m logged into my Azure Directory. And this is where I, as an IT or a developer, command all aspects of Azure. Now I’m in my Azure Active Directory area. And what happens here when I set up a single sign-on in my Azure Active Directory, it gives me what I would equivalence to your Facebook experience. In my personal life, I have my Facebook user name and login, and I can use that to access a whole number of consumer services that I have, but I only have to remember that one user name and password. It makes it a very great and nice experience.
Now, Azure Active Directory does that same thing in the workplace. I just have to have my one user name and password just as credentials, and I can access all the things I need to get done for work. So here I am in my directory, and you can see I can do things like add users to my directory. I can pick groups in my directory. And I can even see reports. And this shows me things like where are people logging in from, and lets me keep an eye on maybe suspicious behavior. Maybe someone is using the same login in two parts of the world at the same time. This gives me a view to help, again, keep my organization safe.
Now I can, of course, add applications to work with my Active Directory, too. So I’ll go in there, and I will add an application. And we have in the gallery a number of different applications that I can add. I’ll go while we’re spinning here for a second. There we go.
And in the gallery we actually have over 1,000 applications that are already integrated with Azure Active Directory. And folks across industry that you may or not expect to be working with Microsoft, and there are, of course, different categories, so I can find just what I’m looking for as well.
Now when my organization adds any of these applications to my Active Directory, it means employees, again, just use that single user name and password to get authenticated right into these applications. But the other aspect of it is, this is also the single place that IT has to manage that as well. So when an employee leaves the organization, I just go here, I remove those credentials, and then the employee doesn’t have access to any of the business information, again, an important aspect of keeping company information safe.
Now if I go back, and I’m going to show you an application that they have configured for a single sign on already, if I go into my company applications list. In this case I’ll choose DocuSign. And I have DocuSign set up for single sign on. And so my employees can go straight in there and start using it. And this is also where I would set up things like multifactor authentication. That’s a new added capability such that I can actually set it up, and my employees will be prompted for a second factor of authentication, maybe a code that comes in through text massage, or a voice call. And that helps me know that the people logging in really are who they say they are. Again, another important aspect of company protection.
Everything I talked about across Intune Mobile Device Management, Azure Active Directory and the capabilities there, plus Azure Rights Management, we’re bringing together today and introducing the Enterprise Mobility Suite into a holistic offering. So now IT has one place to go to manage their bring-your-own-device strategy, help in the cloud-based way do identity and active management, as well as protect company data.
All right. So now let’s talk about our last, but certainly not least, the developer audience is so important to our community. And what I showed you here, the DocuSign is set up in a Web-based way to do single sign-on. We’re now allowing developers to extend that to native apps on mobile devices. So I’m going to go to my iPhone to show you that experience.
So here on my iPhone I have that DocuSign native app installed. And what DocuSign has done is they’ve integrated with Azure Active Directory, but they’ve also integrated with Office 365, because Office 365 is a great user experience, but it’s also a rich, open, flexible development platform as well, making it possible to do great apps like this.
So I’m going to go ahead and open my DocuSign app. And you can see because it’s integrated with  I’m going to discard that  there we go. Now you can see right in the middle there, because it’s built in Office 365, I have access to all my content sitting in SharePoint or Office 365. I can get out and I can get to all of my documents sitting in my Office 365 account. In this case, I have this document I need to sign. The DocuSign app lets me do that. So I can sign it right here on my phone, and it automatically saves right back to the cloud, my Office 365 account. I can open it in my OneDrive for Business account as well.
So this is one small example of what’s possible when you’re building with Azure and Office 365 as a developer. So you can get these really great local experiences, so we can all get more done.
Now, as you’ve just seen, Microsoft is focused on that magical intersection where the mobile and the cloud come together. And everything I showed you today was delivered by the cloud, the Office for iPad app and Office 365 experience, Intune Mobile Device Management, and Azure Active Directory. Microsoft, of course, has a holistic approach across people, IT and developers, and we really are delivering a cloud for everyone on every device.
Thanks.
 So hopefully you got a great feel for the comprehensiveness of what we have set out to do when it comes to building a cloud for mobile devices. You obviously picked up on the news of Office on the iPad. It’s a beautiful set of applications. And you also hopefully got a feel for how we’re taking great focus and great care to make sure that Office on very device shines through.
There was a lot more behind the scenes, and I want to talk a little bit about each one of those elements in some detail. When it comes to Office 365, the vision is pretty straightforward. It is to make sure that the 1 billion Office users and growing can have access to the high-fidelity Office experience on every device they love to use. And Office on the iPad and today’s announcement marks one more step in that direction.
Today the fact that anyone who is an Office 365 subscriber can get access to those beautiful applications on the iPad and do more is definitely the news of the day, but you can expect us, our commitment going forward is to make sure that we drive Office 365 everywhere. So that means across the Web, across all phones, across all tablets, across PCs, that’s our real commitment to Office 365 everywhere.
Second, when it comes to developers, you saw that in the DocuSign demo that Julia did the key salient point perhaps is that the most important developer API that we have is Office 365. If you look at how we are going about Office 365 we are building a great set of end-user experiences, but all the user data starting with Azure Active Directory, which is user information, so that you can enable developers to do single sign-on with Office 365, OneDrive APIs, OneNote APIs, APIs for SharePoint information and lists, information about every aspect of Office 365 that pertains to users is getting exposed in a very modern way across all devices for developers to take advantage. So developers think a lot about user state, and all that user state happens to be in the broad SaaS application relating to communications. And that’s one of the things that we enable.
And besides that, we also have all of the power of Azure for you to be able to manage your application state. So you have storage APIs, you have notification APIs, you have the ability to elastically grow your application using more compute resources and something called Azure mobile services really enables you to build your application. So the combination of what we are doing with Office, as well as Azure, provides developers the richest developer surface area for them to be able to express themselves in a very rich way and go after a very wide opportunity, especially perhaps you would have noted that if you’re an iOS developer today you get to be able to really appeal to enterprises out there by doing single sign-on with Office 365. That’s something that’s a unique capability, and I think Julia said it right when she said it’s like the Facebook for enterprise.
The last piece is the Enterprise Mobility Suite. This one perhaps to me is the most strategic piece of what infrastructure development we’re doing in support of enterprises. And it’s all grounded on the complexity that needs to be tamed today, because if you think about the variety of categories that have emerged, with trends like bring your own devices, and identity management. So you have device management as a silo today. You have identity management and access as a different silo. You have rights management and data protection.
What we are announcing today is both offerings and a road map to build a comprehensive enterprise architecture for IT professionals to be able to bring together their identity management, access management, device management and data protection into one suite and one enterprise architecture that works across all devices, Android, iOS, Windows. And that’s really a massive step forward for anyone who has been tackling and dealing with the complexity that’s inherent.
And you have two sides to it. It really enables the IT professionals to be able to do their job and be heroes, because they can now enable the end users inside their organization to be able to have the flexibility and empowerment to use any application, any device. And at the same time ensure that the corporate assets are well protected. And that people-centric approach to IT is something that we have pioneered and now we’re bringing it together as part of the Enterprise Mobility Suite.
So this in a sense is a cloud for everyone on every device. And as I said at the very beginning, the uniqueness comes from two aspects. One is to be able to span people’s lives individually and into the organization. We are the company that obsesses about that, which is we don’t like to leave things unfinished in terms of scenarios. When you want to be able to do things in your life and you want to use the same applications for your work, and to be able to transcend those two is very core to how we approach everything we do.
And the second aspect that’s unique to us is how we want to bring the end-user experiences that really empower everybody, but at the same time we want to enable a rich set of developer extensions and give the control to IT to be able to govern those experiences. That coming together of end users, IT professionals and developers is ingrained in pretty much everything that we do from Office 365 to Azure, to our client platforms and that’s the uniqueness with which we approach our innovation agenda going forward.
And as I said, today is just one aspect of our overall strategy. Today I was not talking about the all-up Microsoft strategy. I was talking about the most critical piece of innovation agenda, which is at the intersection of mobility and cloud. And you will hear us talk more about other things that we are doing. In fact, next week I’ll be back here at Build, and many other leaders from our company will be here talking about the innovations in Windows, because one of the questions right up front I wanted to address is what about Windows, where does Windows fit in with all of this? Windows is a massive agenda for us. We will innovate and you will see us talk next week about the great innovations in the operating system and great innovations in devices.
At the same time, we are absolutely committed to making our applications run what most people describe as cross-platform great. There’s no holding back of anything. It is about being able to excel everywhere our customers are. One of the questions is, is this a massive tradeoff for you? There is no tradeoff. It’s reality for us. It’s not a competitive reality. That’s not what motivates us. What motivates us is the realities of our customers. What motivates us is to make sure that we build the great experiences that span the digital life and digital work of our customers, both individually and as organizations. And that’s what you can count on us doing, both with Windows as well as other platforms. And that’s what’s driving us.
We’ll even have, post-Build, another conference in a couple of weeks to talk about our data innovation. I’m pretty excited about the work that we are doing in data. So the idea is that over the next even three to four weeks you’ll get a much better picture of our innovation agenda going forward, and how all of these threads come together and define Microsoft in a mobile-first, cloud-first world going forward.
So that’s what we had for today. Thank you very much for all those who are joining on the webcast, and those of you who are here in person. I appreciate the opportunity to have had a chance to represent Team Microsoft with you. And I look forward to seeing you all at Build next week.
Thank you.
 Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome Executive Vice President, Operating Systems Group, Terry Myerson. 
 Good morning, everyone. Good morning. Welcome to Build 2014. You know, just yesterday I was looking online. I looked at Wikipedia. And I realized that it was 22 years ago that right here in Moscone Center, we had our first Microsoft Developer’s Conference. This is just an amazing tradition that we’re all part of here today. 
And so I asked myself, “What is the right way to kick off this conference?” You know, I considered coming out chanting, “Developers, developers, developers.”  For those of you that know me, I would kind of like to do something like that. But it’s been done. 
So then I considered coming out dressed like Scott Guthrie.  But red is just not my color. 
So then I just decided to just be simple and straight and say what motivates me, and what motives everyone you’re going to hear from today and everyone else that works in the platform teams at Microsoft or contributes to the Microsoft platform, is making your creativity come to life. 
Every day, we’re thinking how are we going to enable our developers to build the richest applications, to reach their customers in every corner of the globe, whether they’re at home or at work or in their garage. 
So who’s here with us today? I mean, this is just an incredibly impressive and diverse group. We looked at the surveys you filled out on registration. And we know that some of the most impressive line-of-business applications have been built by the people in this room. Some of the most entertaining and fun games have been built by people in this room. Some of the most powerful Web services on the Internet are represented here. And everything in between. 
And online, we’re expecting viewers from over 170 countries to join us. And something that I think is just incredibly cool, using our public translation APIs, everything we say on stage here today is going to be translated in real time for that online audience. I think that’s pretty slick. 
Now, without further ado, I figure we should just get started. So let’s kick off Build 2014.  
 Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome Corporate Vice President, Operating Systems Group, Joe Belfiore. 
 Good morning!  Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Welcome to Build. We’re obviously very excited to have you here in San Francisco. 
Just as the video said, your fans are waiting. And we weren’t kidding about that. We think these are your fans because, really, it’s all of you who build value and create a ton of what’s superb about the Windows ecosystem. 
So I’m Joe Belfiore. I’m now running a group for PC, tablet and phone within our Operating Systems team. And it’s a great honor for me to be here and spend about the next 50 minutes with you talking about some major updates for Windows. 
In fact, today we’re announcing two things: Windows Phone 8.1 and our Windows 8.1 Update. 
So I’m going to start out by taking you through Windows Phone 8.1. With Windows Phone, we set out to create an experience that’s inspired by people. An experience that gets you closer to the things and people that matter most in your life, one that’s a little bit less like technology and a lot more about you. 
And that’s why we believe that Windows Phone is the world’s most personal smartphone. Now, with Windows Phone 8.1, this story gets a lot better. And that’s through not just a bunch of the software work that we’ve done, but also the wider range of hardware that you’re going to see showing up with Windows Phone 8.1. 
At Mobile World Congress, we announced a range of new hardware partners that were all working on new phones. And, in fact, today, we’re announcing two additional partners: Micromax and Prestigio. 
Now, these companies are building phones, working with Qualcomm and with us through our reference design program, which is a lot of work that we’ve done in conjunction with Qualcomm to make it way easier and less expensive for companies to bring up new Windows Phone devices. 
And at Mobile World Congress, we talked about the partners that were working on this, but we didn’t show any phones. So I thought today we would bring a couple of new phones on stage here. 
So what I have here in my left hand, Micromax, and in my right hand, Prestigio.  So these are their real phones under development. These companies have worked with Qualcomm and with LongShare. LongShare is an OEM that’s a device manufacturing partner. And these phones are up and running with Live Tiles and the software is in good shape and well underway. 
And you can expect to see all of these companies making progress on their engineering with Windows Phones to see that wide range of phone hardware. 
Now, I know one of the things that you’re all really interested in is getting a good look at the software. So let’s get to a demo of Windows Phone 8.1 software. 
OK, let me see here. All right. Now, I want to start out by showing you a few ways that we’ve made Windows Phone 8.1 more personal, more sort of tailored to the way you use the phone and better at expressing your personality. 
The first thing I want to show is a way that we’ve tuned Windows Phone to help make you more efficient and give you a customized way to connect to the apps that maybe you haven’t pinned, and get some notifications about things that are happening, as well as get quick access to settings. 
So I’m going to come up here and pull down from the top and show you our new action center in Windows Phone 8.1.  Yes, thank you. 
We know this is something that a lot of our users have been asking for, so here it is. And if you look down from the top, the first thing you’ll see is it shows you more detail about things like your actual battery percentage. 
If I had dual SIM running on my phone — woops, I think I pulled the power cord out there. If I had dual SIM running on my phone, I’d see information about both of my SIMs with their name. 
Up here, you’d see these four buttons are customizable quick settings. I can set whatever I would like. And down below are the notifications coming from all my apps. 
And as app developers, we’re putting you in a position to really control what’s shown in those notifications through new APIs that give you control. And the user has great control as well because they can decide which apps should cause the phone to vibrate, make a sound, or just show up in the action center and so on. 
So as you see, I brought this down over the lock screen. It’s accessible wherever you are in the UI, really very convenient. 
Now, the second thing we’ve done to make Windows Phone feel even more personal is a feature that lets you greatly personalize your lock screen. And I’m pretty sure this is something that none of you have seen before. 
In Windows Phone 8, we had support for applications to set a background image behind lock. But in Windows Phone 8.1, we’ve implemented a new set of APIs for the lock screen which we’re using ourselves for a little while before we publish them all to you. 
These APIs enable lock-screen experiences that are highly interactive and unique where the application can take over full control and really render whatever it would like. 
As the first app to use these, we’ve been collaborative with Rudy Huyn. Do you all know Rudy Huyn? Star Windows Phone developer behind Wikipedia and 6Tag and 6Chat. 
And he’s been working with us to build out a first experience which we, Microsoft, are going to publish in the store in the coming months to give users a wide range of highly varied lock-screen themes. 
So in this case, this is one that’s called Diagonal. And you can see, the app has got complete control over the lock screen. And when I move and touch, it shows the time and calendar and notification information in a unique way. And when I unlock, it unlocks. 
And I’m actually going to come over here and switch to a different one to give you a sense for how widely varied these lock-screen experiences can be. I mean, the sky is the limit in terms of what all of you will be able to do with this creativity once it’s available. 
Here, you can see my day of the week is displayed completely differently. The arrangement of things on the screen is different, and up here you see this cool sort of — this one is called Tokyo. These three balls all align very nicely when I pan right up to the top, and then it unlocks. 
So there’s a wide range of possibilities here. And we think our end users will love the creativity flexibility that will be possible with these new lock screens. 
Now, third, of course, we’ve evolved the heart and soul of Windows Phone, the start screen. And so we’re going to pan over here. And the first thing you’ll notice on my small device was Windows Phone 8.1 users have the option to choose a high-density, lots of tiles layout where they get three columns across of tiles. 
And I’m going to jump in here to settings and go to the start and theme area where you can see down here, there’s an on/off switch for showing more tiles. I’ll leave that turned on. So that’s one way we’re letting users greatly customize their start screen. 
But another thing we’re doing here is we’re letting people choose a background for start. So I’m going to choose background and go into the set of backgrounds that we’ve supplied. I like this one here with this cool, green texture, which matches my phone. 
I’ll say OK. And then you can see there, that photo has been selected. And now when I go back to start, voila, I have a really different and beautiful visual appearance for my tiles.  
All of this is about making Windows Phone more personal and better able to fit your personality and look the way you want and give you customization because we think when a phone knows you, you have a better experience with it. There’s no other device that’s so personal. 
In fact, along those lines, actually, one of the things that we spent a lot of effort on this past year is a new way — a new feature that makes Windows Phone very personal in an incredibly useful way. 
So we’ve been working on this for a long time. We think it’s an experience you’re going to love, but rather than me describe it to you, I figure you should just watch as she comes to life. 
  Well, here she is. I’m thrilled for you all to now meet our truly personal digital assistant for Windows Phone, and yes, her name is Cortana. 
Hey, Cortana, do you like your name? 
 Cortana? I love it. It’s certainly a lot catchier than “Microsoft Personal Assistant v.1 Service Pack 2 2014.”  
 We thought so too. Any comments about how you look? 
 Some things I resemble: A hula hoop, a doughnut, a halo.  
 All right. Now, Cortana is powered by Bing. So since she understands the entire Internet, you could say she knows everything about the world. 
But beyond what you’d expect from a mere search engine, Cortana also gets to know you. She’s always looking out for you and she keeps you closer to the things you care about most in the world and the people you care about most in the world. 
So let’s take a look at how she actually looks and performs on a Windows Phone. 
So I’m going to switch over to my Lumia 1520 here. And I’ll unlock my phone. And I want you to notice right there on the start screen, front and center, right here, I have a Live Tile for Cortana. 
So of course Cortana has a Live Tile. And you can see she’s animating right there. And there’s a number of interests that I’ve already taught her about and the Live Tile is showing me this news and information. So that’s one way I might get to Cortana. 
But Cortana also fully replaces the search function on Windows Phone. So whenever you push the search button, Cortana is there to help you do searches, find information or get things done. 
So I’m going to go down here and touch the search button, and there’s Cortana. And you can see, she greets me, she looks a little excited to see me here on stage, and probably to see all of you. She says, “What’s on your mind?” And below that, you see she’s giving a bunch of suggestions for things that I might ask. 
And these suggestions are actually personalized. If you watch them, sometimes she suggests things actually related to people that she knows about me, people that she knows that I know. 
And one of the nice things you can do here is I’ll just touch this “see more.” So you get an overview of all the kinds of things Cortana can do. 
Like a real personal assistant, she’s good at handling your communications and your calendar. She can make phone calls or send texts or schedule appointments, take a note, give you a reminder. She’s also good at helping you learn things. She can do searches, tell you what music is playing. She knows the places you frequent, and so on, and so on. 
So all of that is built right in. But we knew that if we really wanted to make Cortana the most personal and the most powerful digital assistant, that we needed all of you to help us make her better and better. 
So if I scroll down here, you’ll see as well, Cortana can be extended via third-party apps. And there are a number of app vendors that we’ve been working with to get ready for this announcement, have the first samples of speech-enabled Cortana apps that can do things when the user interacts with their phone, and I’ll show you how that works a little later. 
OK, so let me come back here again. And there’s Cortana. Now, a couple other things you might notice. When we went out and started working on Cortana, we met with a bunch of real-world personal assistants. And we talked to them about what made them good at their job. 
And there was this recurring theme they had about getting to know their client, what were the things the client liked, who were the people that he or she cared about, when should he be bothered and when shouldn’t he. 
And a lot of them said they kept that sort of information in a notebook. We said, “Well, that’s a pretty good idea. We should give Cortana a notebook.” 
So right up here in the upper right, I’m going to touch this hamburger button. And you see here’s Cortana’s notebook. 
This is the transparent way of putting the user in control of their relationship with Cortana. You can help her understand all of your interests, the people you care about, what your quiet hours are, and so on. So let me take you through some of this. 
When I go to interests, these are all the things that Cortana has inferred about me or asked me about or that I’ve told her I care about. I want a daily glance, I want to know about traffic, I want some news headlines, I care about the NCAA tournament, Stanford football, Windows Phone and Xbox One. You get the idea. 
And the more I use the search function, the more Cortana learns about me by asking and confirming, “Would you like me to keep track of this for you?” Just like a real personal assistant would. 
Another good example of something Cortana really gets to know about you is the people that matter most. How could you have a personal assistant if they didn’t know your friends and family? And that’s the inner circle. 
So here you can see Cortana has inferred some people that I might care about. She’s giving me suggestions down here. And then I confirm that certain people should be part of my inner circle, like my wife, my sister and so on. And she even gets to know the relationships I have with those people. 
And that’s really useful for a lot of different functions, but in particular, it’s useful for quiet hours. I can turn on quiet hours and explain what I want my quiet hours to be and then Cortana has a set of rules you see here for letting the inner circle break through, even during my quiet hours. 
I might not want Terry Myerson to call me during quiet hours, but I probably do want to get a phone call from my wife. That level of control is entirely up to the user, just like you would have in a real-world relationship with a real personal assistant. 
Cortana also knows the places that you frequent. And she will automatically infer your home and work. But if she gets them wrong, they’re right here in the notebook, easy to find, you can fix them. 
And if you want to teach her about some places that are important to you, you can just click the plus button and add a place and then Cortana will come to understand that place as well. So the point is, the user is in control of his or her relationship with Cortana. 
Now, back on Cortana’s home, you might be wondering, well, where do these suggestions and things show up? You might notice down here on the very bottom, Cortana is prompting me with information that’s — wow, look at that — Microsoft is announced Windows Phone 8.1?  Here’s a photo. Obviously, that’s something I’m interested in, and you can see her in action right there. 
Here’s news and information about Xbox One. Health news, sports news, the weather. And here’s a good one. Cortana is asking would I like for her to track Alaska flight 26 from Seattle to Chicago. 
Now, let me explain how she knew to ask me that. I’ve given Cortana permission to read all of the email I have on my phone. That’s on my phone, Cortana on my phone. I’ve authorized her to scan email and recognize things that she might be able to helpfully track for me in the service. 
This is not the service knowing, it’s the phone. And so Cortana has recognized a flight itinerary in my email. And now she’s asking, “Should I track it?” And I’ll say, “Yes.” And voila, now the service becomes aware of it, and Cortana can prompt me when it’s time for me to physically leave and get to the airport wherever I am. She can notify me proactively if my flight is canceled or the time changes and so on. 
And that gives you a good sense of the way that Cortana on the phone gets to know you, with your permission. It goes in the notebook, and then the service can be helpful proactively. 
So that gives you a sense of all the things that Cortana will do for you proactively. Now, I know a lot of you are wondering, is this guy ever going to get around to showing me how I interact with Cortana? Well, yes, thank you for bearing with me. I wanted to really give you a sense of what she’s about. 
So let me actually get her to do some stuff for me. So here I am in Cortana. The first thing, of course, that you’d expect is that she can help me with my calendar and being organized like a real personal assistant. 
Wake me up at 7 a.m. tomorrow. 
 OK, your alarm is set for 7 a.m. 
 Yeah, simple, of course you’d expect that.  She’s not only good at alarms, but she’s good with your calendar too. 
So imagine a real-world personal assistant, the kinds of things you might say to be organized. What’s on my calendar for Saturday? 
 I’m finding three events Saturday. At 10 a.m., Alex’s soccer practice at soccer field. At 11 a.m., soccer game. And read all books from “Game of Thrones” before premiere all day.  
 You’ve got to be ready, right? 
So in this case, I just asked her a question and she responds. And she’s really good at telling me stuff on my calendar because that’s what you would expect a personal assistant to do. And she can schedule things too. 
Now, imagine you’re in the dentist appointment at the desk and they want you to set up an appointment. Well, you can do this really easily. Put dentist appointment on my calendar for August 1st at 10 a.m. 
 All right. I’ll add dentist appointment to your calendar for Friday, August 1st, at 10 a.m., sound good? 
 Yep. 
 All right. I’ve added it. Just so you know, you have pick up Christina from airport at the same time.  
 Well, that’s what you’d expect from a personal assistant, if there’s a conflict, you want them to tell you. In fact, I could say to Cortana, “Please move that appointment.” And so on. And she can handle all those sorts of tasks. 
So that gives you a sense of how she can help you be organized and get things done. 
Well, as I said, she’s powered by Bing and knows the entire Internet, so she’s pretty good at searches and questions and those kinds of things. 
So here I am in San Francisco. I’m hoping to meet up with my family a little bit later, and I’m going to get a big group of people, let’s say, and go out down in Palo Alto. So this is the perfect kind of thing that Cortana can help me with. 
Show me the best Mexican restaurants in Palo Alto. 
 Here are 10 Mexican restaurants in Palo Alto that are four stars. 
 Now, here’s what’s going on. Of course Cortana powered by Bing knows a lot about the Internet, but remember, Bing has relationships with lots of other great data feeds. So in this case, Yelp data helps Cortana identify four-star restaurants, and that’s what she’s showing me here. 
Now, because that data is present and because Cortana is sufficiently smart, I can narrow my query in a really natural kind of way. 
I’m going to have a big group of people, so I want to make reservations. Which ones take reservations? 
 Here are the ones that are four stars and take reservations. 
 You notice, she knew what I was already talking about. Now, let’s get a vote from the audience. I know some of you will know these places. Who thinks we should go to Milagros? Come on. Milagros? No one, OK, I’ve been warned off. Cascal?  All right, OK, thank you. The wisdom of the crowd in action here. 
So now of course I want her to help me complete the task by getting a reservation. Call the second one. 
 Sure thing. Who would you like to call? 
 Oh, well, there you go, our first little demo bug with my nervous voice. Generally, Cortana is quite good at recognizing in lists of places like that if I say call, she’ll call, the phone call happens automatically. 
So sorry about that. Actually, that’s a good segue to mention that as you notice in the upper right, we’re launching Cortana as a beta because we’re training the service on the back end with lots and lots of voice utterances to improve its speech recognition as things go on. And later on, we’ll remove the beta tag as we expand from the United States to the U.K. and China and then, following that, to other countries. So it’s not that surprising that the service has a couple of glitches now. You’ll all get a chance to play with it later. 
Now, there are a whole bunch of other questions that I can ask Cortana. How did the Seattle Mariners do yesterday? 
Oh, it got a — I’m going to try that one again. How did the Seattle Mariners do yesterday? 
 On Tuesday, the Seattle Mariners defeated the Los Angeles Angels. 
 You see that? That’s the “undefeated” Seattle Mariners there at 2-0. 
Cortana is, right now, the service is in the process of learning a ton about sports and being good at answering sports questions. So I was out with a bunch of people and we were talking about a particular sports topic and this particular question came up, oh, and here was a perfect scenario for Cortana and one that I know a lot of you here in the audience will care about. 
How old is Russell Wilson? 
 Russell Wilson is 25 years old. 
 She has to think. 25. You know, for you 9’ers fans, I’m sorry, that means he’ll be with us in Seattle for a long time.  So we’re all happy about that, we’ll see how that goes. 
Cortana is good at answering questions about the world. And as I said, as a beta, we’re making the service smarter and smarter and smarter. And sometimes she can help me with tasks that are related to my questions. 
So let’s say I’m out eating and I’m trying to track my calorie intake, watch my diet. How many calories in a banana? 
 There are 105 calories in a serving of banana. 
 OK, so she answers the question. And what’s even more interesting, if you look down here, I can see more nutritional information, or I can add this to my diet tracker. And Bing will keep track of this. Part of Bing on the Web, but also the Bing Health & Fitness app gets this data as a means of Cortana being extended to apps. And then when I use that app, the banana is then added and I can keep track of those calories. It’s an easy way to interact with Cortana by asking a question and then get the data in another app. 
So more questions. What’s the weather in Las Vegas? 
 It’s currently 51 and cloudy in Las Vegas. 
 OK. Straightforward. Straightforward. I know some of you might be confused by that. How about in Celsius? For the Canadians. 
 Here’s that temperature in Celsius. 
 OK, I know some of you are still confused, I’m sorry. I have one for the rest of you, and I want to hear whether this is what you were really looking for. How about in Kelvin?  
 I converted that temperature to Celsius. 
 No, that’s not what I want.  I’m going to do that again. How about in Kelvin? 
 I converted that temperature to Celsius. 
 No! You know, the vagaries of a service that’s alive and up and down. You should try this yourself when you get these bits, because Cortana is smart enough to tell you the answer in Kelvin. 
You know, we’ve tried to make her smart and sometimes you think about the things that she might know, and just how deeply can she reach into the Internet to figure things out for you. And it’s been fun to track in the limited use we’ve had at Microsoft to see the things that people are asking and tune the service and make it better. 
One of the things I know you all will be really interested in: What’s the story of the next “Halo” game? 
 I’m quite certain you don’t have the proper security clearance for that information. 
 It is Cortana, after all. I mean, I thought I’d give it a shot. But you never know. 
Now, what you’ve seen me doing here is using the speech recognition capabilities to have a really natural conversation with Cortana. 
But there are lots of times that you expect and need not only your search function, but you’d like your personal assistant to work in situations where it doesn’t make sense for you to talk to her. 
So Cortana works with typing as well. So I’m going to go here, press the search button, and I’m going to do some typed queries. So the first one — and if you think about searches, sometimes you want to search the Web, and sometimes you want to search on your phone, which is new in Windows Phone 8.1. 
So I’ll say “email from Terry.” I’ll type that. And now Cortana recognizes that I’m probably looking for stuff on my phone. She doesn’t make any audio audible noise, and here you can see the emails on my phone from Terry. 
So search of local content on the phone is now supported, and you can see how Cortana handles that in a very natural way. 
Another example you might be wondering, well, can I type complex requests to Cortana? Or do I have to speak them? Yes, you can type anything. So as a personal assistant, one of the things that she’s also good at is reminders. So I’ll type in here, “remind me when I get home to cook dinner for my wife.” So remind me when I get home to cook dinner for my wife, probably more realistically, cook dinner for my kids. 
I’ll type it in. When should she remind me? OK, here, again, ordinarily she would recognize “when I get home” and you would see right there, “home.” You get the idea, I can type these things, generally she recognizes places, fills it in, and makes it super easy even when I’m not talking. 
Now, one of the other things that we’ve added into Cortana which is something we heard these personal assistants talk about a lot is the degree to which they help their clients with relationships with other people. 
You know, the personal assistants knew that you had a meeting with so and so, and they knew that the person got promoted or was bummed out about something. And so a real-world personal assistant helps you with those relationships. We thought, well, that’s a perfect thing for Cortana to do as well. In fact, it’s something that other digital assistants don’t do. 
So I want to show you a kind of reminder that only Cortana can do, and these are people reminders. So I’m going to keep myself out of trouble with my sister by remembering to talk to her about her new addition to her family. Next time I speak with my sister, remind me to ask her about her new puppy. 
 All right. Next time you talk to Nancy, I can remind you to ask her about her new puppy. Sound good? 
 Yep. 
 Great. 
 Now, of course since this is a phone, I might talk to my sister on the phone, or I might have a chat string with her, I might have an email conversation. And in all those cases, Cortana will now remind me when I’m in the context of talking to my sister to talk to her about her new puppy. And of course that will make my sister feel much better about me as her brother. 
OK. I showed you a little earlier that as we’re building up Cortana, we are making her smarter and smarter on the service back end. But we’re also inviting you all to participate with that as well. 
And when people start talking to their phone in natural language, we want to be able to use the natural language capabilities in the cloud to make your apps work better. 
So if a user addresses an app by name and then says some text, we’re going to parse that and get it to you so that good things happen. Let me show you some examples. 
Skype, get David Treadwell. 
 Starting Skype. 
 This is a new version of Skype that we’re updating for Windows Phone 8.1 and you can see here, Skype has recognized David Treadwell, and he’s coming online here in the contact that I have set. I’m not going to actually make the call here on stage, you get the general idea. 
There are lots of other things that we’re working on right now. And we invite you all to participate as well. 
Let’s say I’m at a party and I’m out and someone says, “Have you seen the new show, in this case, ‘Deadbeats’?” The new show on Hulu. Oh, Joe, you should watch that. I don’t want to have to navigate around and find stuff. I want to really get to my apps quickly. So I can now do that via talking to Cortana. 
Hulu, add “Deadbeats” to my queue. 
 Opening Hulu Plus. 
 And so the app runs, the service recognizes the data. 
 All right, adding “Deadbeats” to queue. 
 There it is. “Deadbeats” has been added to my queue using natural language and making that really convenient.  
OK, I’ve got one more third-party app example I want to show you. We’ve been collaborating with one of our really good partners to light up Facebook. 
Facebook, what’s up with Terry Myerson? 
 Starting Facebook. 
 So of course the app will launch, the text is parsed in the cloud, it found Terry Myerson, and here I am looking at Terry Myerson’s news feed. So it’s very quick and easy for me to pan in —  What? It’s so on. OK. Who wants to see what Terry has posted about on Facebook? Yes? Yes? All right, let’s do it. 
 Yeah. That sounds like something Terry would post to his Facebook timeline for sure. I wonder what Cortana thinks about that. Do you like Jimmy Fallon? 
 Thank you note to Jimmy Fallon. Thanks for my TV debut on your show, love Cortana. 
 Excellent. Well, we certainly think that that’s a great way for Cortana’s career to launch. You get a sense of what she’s about. From our point of view, Cortana is the first truly personal digital assistant who learns about me and the things that matter most and the people that matter most. She understands the entire Internet, and she’s great at helping me get things done, whether it’s by typing or talking. 
So now I’m going to change gears and talk about a whole different part of the Windows Phone 8.1 and a bunch of work we’ve done to light up an audience that we love, and which I know a lot of you will love, and that is businesses. 
So to help go through all the ways that Windows Phone 8.1 is now killer for businesses, I’m going to invite Nick Hedderman on stage. So, Nick, come on out.  
Nick first started working — Nick is a great expert to have do this because he first started working with enterprise customers back in Windows Mobile 5, and I’m going to let him take you through a bunch of the work we’ve done for business and then I’ll be back. 
Well, thank you very much, Joe. And good morning, everybody. 
With the best productivity tools built right in like Office, and a platform that’s built on the secure NT kernel, Windows Phone has always been the right choice for business. 
But now with Windows Phone 8.1, we’re taking it to another level. We’re respecting existing IT investments, and we’re working with a number of partners to support this new release. In fact, you can see just a few of them here on the slides on the screen. 
What’s also great about Windows Phone is consumers can chose a device that suits their price point, design, screen size and the color. And two very important things once they’ve chosen the phone. First of all, they all come with that beautiful, consistent experience that Joe has been showing you so far. And secondly, they can be secured and managed in exactly the same way. 
Now, I’m going to show you some of these new capabilities here on this phone I’ve got plugged in. 
Now, we’re trying to recruit Joe for a new role at Microsoft. It’s a top-secret role, and it’s a thing that’s very, very close to his heart, and that’s keynote T-shirt design. You’ll, notice he had a pretty cool one on there, and he typically always wears a great one when he comes out to talk to you guys. 
Now, this is Joe’s phone. It’s a beautiful Nokia Lumia Icon. He bought it from a retail store. And, in fact, he started using it for a few days before I took it off him. 
And then I asked for his username and password. We enrolled this device into his new role that we’re trying to recruit him for. I want to show you some of the changes that have happened. Once we enrolled that device, it pushed down all of the corporate information. His email, applications, policies, settings and many, many more things. 
Now, the first thing I want to show you is the fact we now support enterprise VPN in Windows Phone 8.1. 
So I’m just loading up here an internal site that we’re connected to. Here it is. And I’m just going to go into a real Microsoft website. And you can see there, this is on Joe’s phone, we’re behind the firewall, we’re browsing the Web. And if I just swipe down from the top here, you’ll notice that I’ve actually pinned VPN to my quick action settings there, and you can see the little padlock is flashing away as it’s going out there. It’s going in to connect up to VPN. And in a second, what you’ll see here is that it’s going to be connected. So that’s just one of the first things that we’ve done in Windows Phone 8.1. 
The second is we now support S/MIME. So that allows users to read encrypted emails on their device and they can also encrypt and sign emails when they send them from their phone. 
So I’m just going to go into — there we go, the VPN is connected there, just so you can see it. 
I’m just going to go into Joe’s email here. And what you’ll notice, here’s a mail from Justin. And because of that little certificate symbol showing up at the top there, you can see it’s a signed message. 
Now, what’s also great about Windows Phone is that when Joe or any user goes to send a new message from their phone, they can decide whether they want to encrypt or sign that message. 
So, for example, if Joe was just sending an email to his wife or his family or friends, he could just send it in the normal way. Or if he was sending something very confidential internally, he could choose to use S/MIME, so it gives the user choice. 
Now, I want to move on and talk about some of the MDM capabilities that we’re bringing in this release. The first thing I want to do is show you a T-shirt design here from our head designer. This is a new designer that Joe’s going to be working with in this role if we get him to do it. Here’s a beautiful new Cortana design. Looks pretty cool. 
Now, if Joe went to try and save that email to his device, I’m sorry, Joe, we don’t trust you with that information. You can see there, the save option is completely grayed out. That’s because the MDM policy is telling him that he can’t have local copies here on his phone. 
Now, I also know that Joe loves to play “Wordament.” I saw him playing it just last night. And, in fact, he had “Wordament” installed on this device before we enrolled it. But what you’ll notice now is, unfortunately, we’ve put it on the deny list. So now the application can’t be used on that device. We want him concentrating just on work and not having fun. Sorry, Joe, that app’s been disabled. 
So let’s get Joe back out on stage and see what he thinks about all of these new capabilities, and specifically, this new role we’re trying to recruit him for. What do you think, Joe? 
 I love the phone, but no “Wordament”? 
 No “Wordament.” 
 “Wordament”! Do you folks play “Wordament”?  I’m still going for the elusive 16-letter word achievement. I don’t think I could do this. I love the T-shirt. I can’t do this without “Wordament.” Can you put it back the way it was? 
 You don’t want to do the role? 
 I’ll work on T-shirt design without the role. 
 All right. So the good news is that we can return this phone to its original state. We can do that remotely from the IT management console. But in this case, I’m just going to go into settings and do it manually here on the phone. 
So I’m going to go into workplace. This is where we originally enrolled the device. You can see the relationship we have here. I’m going to delete that relationship. And then when I go back to my start screen, what you’ll see is all those corporate applications have now been removed. The email, the corporate apps, that connection to VPN, and all the documents that were previously saved in Office. So that’s now a device that’s back. And good news, if we load “Wordament,” it’s ready to go. 
 All right. 
 So, in summary, we’ve added a host of new capabilities. I showed you just a few there, and we’ve got many, many more. Our partner ecosystem is expanding. We showed you just some of those new partners a second ago. And that beautiful, consistent, Windows Phone experience comes to life across an entire portfolio of devices. That’s why we believe Windows Phone is the right choice for business. Thanks, Joe. 
 Thanks very much.  
All right, so the next set of things I want to talk about is a range of new features we’ve added to Windows Phone 8.1 just to delight users across the broad experience. And I don’t have time to show you all of these, but I’m going to give you a quick sampling of features we’ve put in just to make you smile. 
And I’m going to start with one that we think will make all of you smile, which is enhancements we’ve made to the store experience in Windows Phone 8.1. We want end users to be happier finding apps, and we want all of you to be way happier downloading more and more apps and getting more app engagement. 
So the first thing you see when I open the store, it’s all about apps. And, in fact, it lands on a new page that’s about featured apps, which we can program its visual appearance from the service. We can change these groups, we can change the size of the tiles. So if there’s a big launch, boom, an app gets a huge tile and the user will be massively invited to engage with it. 
When I pan left, we’ve learned in our telemetry that promoting personalized suggestions works great for getting users to download apps. So we put the “for you” area just off to the left of the featured area. 
And of course we have our categories, which are now the same as on Windows Phone. And then a number of quick links because we found these are the sorts of things, the lists, that users like to go down and load up their phones with. Things like new and rising apps when they’re looking for something fun to get, top paid apps, top paid games and so on. 
So we’re excited that this store experience will get more engagement for you and get more users running apps. 
Now, the next new delight I want to talk about is, again, an app that has great benefit for end users, but is relevant to all of you as an audience, and that is our new calendar. 
So I’m going to open up the calendar here. And you’ll see, here’s the calendar view. Looks a lot like what you’re used to in Windows Phone 8. You might notice up in the upper right there, I’ve now got the weather. But one thing that we changed in response to user feedback was enabling people to just swipe to the right to get to the next day. So I can go from today to tomorrow and so on. Very simple and straightforward. 
Another thing that users asked for was some other views. In fact, people with fewer appointments on their calendar than I have really tend to like a week view because it gives you an at-a-glance way to see any particular day and how busy it is. 
So if I touch on a particular day, then I have a way to jump in here and do that. You get the idea. 
Now, the feature for you developers is that this new version of calendar, we have reimplemented using the public third-party developer API only. And that means that we’ve been testing out the new platform, improving performance in list scrolling, making it really smooth, and so this nicely tuned experience that you see is one that’s helped us get the platform ready so when you update your app, they have amazing performance as well. So that’s the calendar. 
Now, the next thing I want to talk about is a few places that we’ve done a lot of work to improve the basic performance of Windows Phone. And you’re familiar right here on my start screen, I’ve pinned three of these, with Storage Sense, Data Sense and Battery Saver. And all of these have been enhanced. 
But what I want to show you is a new Sense application that we’ve added for the phone called Wi-Fi Sense. 
So to do that, I’m going to go into the settings here and choose Wi-Fi. And you’ll see there’s a huge, massive number of Wi-Fi networks that are set up here for the Build Conference. 
I’ll scroll past all of those. And I’m going to open Wi-Fi Sense. What Wi-Fi Sense is about is helping users take great advantage of Wi-Fi networks. So there’s a service that we run that learns about the good Wi-Fi networks, and it will suggest great ones in your area. 
And up here at the top, you’ll see it’s got this connect to Wi-Fi hotspot area that I’ve enabled. And what that does is asks Wi-Fi Sense to automatically connect me to free Wi-Fi hotspots when I’m in range. 
And you can see here, Wi-Fi Sense, if I give it permission, will automatically accept the terms of use on these websites in the kind of portal page that you get, and I can even provide a name, email address and so on. So portals that require me to put in information get the information I provide and automatically sign me into Wi-Fi without me needing to do anything. 
Now, with Wi-Fi Sense, we didn’t stop at free public networks, there’s another scenario where getting people to Wi-Fi can be improved. 
Think about this, you have your own home Wi-Fi network. You have prudently protected it with a password. But whenever your friends come over, they want to get on your Wi-Fi network and they say, “What’s your Wi-Fi password?” And then you tell them the password and they know your password, they sign in, and then they can get to anything on your network. 
Well, we made Wi-Fi Sense take advantage of Windows Phone’s personal nature, the fact that we understand your Facebook friends, your Outlook contacts, and so on to give you a way at your choice to securely share your own Wi-Fi passwords with your friends in a way that’s automatic. 
So if I turn this on, when my friends come over to my house, the Wi-Fi Sense service gives them a secure way to sign into my Wi-Fi hotspot without giving access to all the resources on my network, only to the Internet connection, and now I don’t have to verbally tell them the password. 
This helps everyone take advantage of Wi-Fi networks wherever they are, and makes Wi-Fi way more automatic. So that’s Wi-Fi Sense.  Thank you. 
Each of these other experiences, Storage Sense, Battery Saver, Data Sense, they’ve all improved in a bunch of ways which we’ll explain in the blog. 
OK, let’s see here, my sister is calling. Let me just take this. The timing is not great, but it’s not terrible. OK, hang on, I’m in front of a bunch of people, just bear with me. 
You see here, the first thing that you notice when my sister calls is there’s Cortana reminding me to ask her about her new puppy. Great. I’m not going to get in trouble.  Thank you. 
And there’s a second thing that I want to point out here that’s new in Windows Phone 8.1. We wanted to make it really easy and natural for people to take one form of communication like a phone call and go to a different form of communication like, let’s say, a video call. 
So you notice right there in the middle of the screen is a Skype button. The new version of Skype is not only enhanced to work with Cortana, but also gives me a way to elevate from an ordinary phone call to a video phone call just by pushing that button. 
And we do that in a smart way, keeping the phone call connected as long as possible while getting Skype up and running to get you to your video call. 
And that mechanism works not just for Skype, but also for the RCS apps that mobile operators are writing and deploying around the world, so there’s an easy and natural way to take a phone call and go to a video call. 
Your new puppy is beautiful. I gotta go.  
OK. So that gives you a quick look at Skype, phone calling, and how we’ve enhanced that. And I have one last delighter feature that I want to take you through. And trust me, go read the blog. There’s a bunch more of these things. Play with the build, you’ll find more. 
And this is actually, probably — and I hate to choose favorites, but this is really my other favorite feature in Windows Phone 8.1. And once you get used to it and you go back to an older version, you just can’t believe that you lived without this. And that is the enhancements that we’ve made to the Word Flow keyboard. The Word Flow keyboard is already a terrific keyboard on Windows Phone 8. It learns the things that you type and it knows about the people you care about. 
And in Windows Phone 8.1, it’s way better. In fact, the thing that really has made it magical is our addition of shape writing, which is now built in for free. And now I’m going to do the riskiest part of my demo. You thought talking to Cortana was risky. This is terrible. I have sweaty hands, and now I’m going to type as fast as I can. You ready? 
Being on stage at Build is simultaneously — whew!  Not IV, but oh, come on — on. Being on stage at Build is simultaneously — OK, that worked — delightful and horrifying. Whew! Of course — and I need all caps for this — I love, with a heart, developers.  But occasional cynical techies can be intimidating. Whew! There’s the Word Flow keyboard in action.  And now I can wipe off my sweaty hands because that part of the demo is over. 
So you saw me do this here. And trust me, actually when I’m feeling natural about it, I can do it even faster. My thumb is like pressing into the glass here. And so I don’t want you to just take my word for it. In fact, as a proof point, I have a video I want to run because we thought our keyboard was so good that we should go for the Guinness Book of World Records world record. So let’s run the video and see Windows Phone 8.1 trying to beat out the Samsung Galaxy S4 previous record holder, going for the world’s fastest typing on a smartphone. 
Now, that guy is not nervous on stage. There is an official sentence that you have to type. The Guinness Book of World Records people have an official one. So we had to type that one. This is actually with a beta, not final version here. And that complex sentence was typed in 17 seconds. And you’ll see in a second they’re going to zoom in here and — yeah, come on, let us see — oh, I think first they zoom out. 
Trust me. Windows Phone Word Flow keyboard is now the world record holder for fastest typing on a smartphone. And this is something you all should try yourselves.  
All right. So the last thing I want to cover on Windows Phone 8.1 is how Windows Phone 8.1 works with Windows in a lot of amazing ways. 
And of course you know that we’ve been doing that for a while. Today on Windows Phone, if you take a picture with your camera, we auto-upload the photo to OneDrive and then if you switch to your PC or tablet, it’s instantly available for you to browse. 
On your PC or tablet, if you create a presentation in PowerPoint and save to OneDrive, it’ll immediately be available on your phone where you can view and edit it. So we already do lots of these things. But in Windows Phone 8.1, we did a bunch more. And in particular, we focused on settings. 
So, for example, if you connected to a Wi-Fi hotspot on your PC and typed in a Wi-Fi password, well, now with Wi-Fi Sense, that password is immediately and automatically shared to your phone. You don’t need to type it in again. 
And there are a whole lot of these kinds of settings like your theme color and so on. 
And one of the experiences that’s benefited from that that’s also connected between Windows and Windows Phone is IE 11, which is now part of Windows Phone 8.1, and that also adds a bunch of great new features like in-private browsing now on the phone, and there’s a terrific new reading mode that you need to try out that makes it super easy to read sites when they’re complex or have small fonts. It’s a terrific new browsing experience as well. 
So that’s Windows Phone 8.1. And from our point of view, we’re taking the world’s most personal smartphone experience and making it way better with more customization options, with Cortana, the only personal digital assistant on a smartphone. A lot of enterprise features, and many, many delighters, including ways that Windows Phone connects with your Windows PC. 
Now, I know a lot of you are going to be wondering when will people get this? Well, Windows Phone 8.1 is going to start rolling out to consumers as an update in the next few months. We’re finishing up our software, and then we work with the hardware vendors to match it with the software that they ship. Then mobile operators get a look at that, and then we roll that out on each phone model as it’s ready. So look for that in a few months. 
You’ll also see Windows Phone 8.1 available on brand-new phones starting as soon as very late April or early May, and you’ll hear a little bit more about that later. 
And for all of you developers, I’m not going to tell you now, you’ve got to wait until David Treadwell’s on stage, and you’ll hear what we have for you. 
So now I’m going to change gears and talk to you about Windows 8.1. This is the second operating system update we have to talk about today. And at Mobile World Congress, I explained that Windows 8.1 is enhanced to work great on lower-cost devices with just 1 gig of memory and 16 gig of storage. 
We’ve also improved its enterprise support, in particular through a new enterprise mode feature in IE 11, which I’m going to show you, and we focused on making it smoother and easier to use for people with mouse and keyboard focus. 
And whether you have a touch screen or not, if you’re heavily using a mouse and keyboard, we wanted to make Windows 8.1 easier to learn and easier to use. 
So today I’m going to show you the Windows 8.1 Update for the first time. 
So let’s come over here and switch to the PC. I don’t know if you folks have that on there. You’ll notice I’m on my desktop because I’m on a PC here, which although it does have a touch screen, I’m going to focus on my usage with mouse and keyboard. 
So I’m on the desktop and one of the new things we’ve done is enable the PC to boot or resume straight to the desktop. And what I’m going to do here is run IE. So I’ve run IE, I’ve opened Bing, oh, you notice on Bing here down at the bottom there are a few things that look pretty familiar as the interests I’ve told Cortana about. Because, in fact, Cortana on the phone and Bing in the cloud share a knowledge of my interests because I’m signed in. So that makes Bing a little bit more handy. 
What I’m actually going to do, instead of focusing on this, that was a little non sequitur, I want to show you how IE 11 has been updated to help enterprises deal with legacy sites on their corporate intranet. 
So I’m going to go here to this Contoso corporate travel site. This is a site that the Contoso company has put on their corporate intranet years ago when they targeted IE8. IE8, a very popular browser, and you see the site’s kind of confused. It thinks I’m using an older version of IE. It’s asking me to update to IE8. Oh, no, that’s not what I want. 
And so what we’ve done with an enterprise mode in IE 11, which I’m going to switch to right here so you can see the difference, is change the user agent string, change the way ActiveX controls are invoked, re-enable some features that we had previously degraded and disabled, so these legacy sites will work great. 
So you see when I switch to enterprise mode, voila, Contoso Travel now works. 
And the way I showed that to you in this manual way is not the way we expect IT managers to really handle this. IT managers are able to set a list of sites on their corporate networks that should automatically go into enterprise mode, and therefore, end users will get the right rendering approach for the old site and the most modern rendering approach for sites out on the Internet in a totally seamless way. 
And this is great because it makes it much more plausible for enterprises to be deploying this on their new PCs, because they get to keep their site compatibility. 
Now, the next thing I want to talk about is a bunch of UI improvements we’ve made to the mouse and keyboard experience of Windows. And I mentioned already that I can boot straight to the desktop or resume to the desktop, but now I want to talk about one of the most-used areas of computing real estate in the universe, and that is the Windows task bar. 
If you are a Windows user that’s been a Windows user for a long time, you probably have a deep and intimate relationship with the task bar. It’s the way you think about switching between apps or launching apps. And we’ve enhanced it significantly in this update to work with new Windows Store apps. 
So you’ll see down here, I have a few apps that are Win32 apps, and then over here, I have a bunch of task bar buttons for apps that are store apps. 
So here is the Facebook app. And you’ll notice, when I open it up, right up here at the top, we show the title bar because Windows users that have a mouse and keyboard are incredibly accustomed to coming up here to choose minimize, and that now works in a modern app.  
I’ll switch back here to Facebook again. And you’ll notice the task bar was displayed on the bottom as well. So if I move down here to the bottom of the screen, the task bar will pop up, and I can use that to switch between modern apps, there’s mail, there’s Facebook, or I can switch back to a Win32 app like IE, the desktop is brought up. I no longer have to think about a different switching model for apps whether they are Win32 desktop apps or modern.  Thank you. 
And I want you to keep in mind that the work that we’ve done to make touch great is unaffected by these changes. If I were holding a tablet in my hand, being able to swipe in from the left and do task switching is convenient and natural. And that’s still present, but it’s no longer required for my mouse and keyboard use. 
Now, similarly, if I’m using a tablet when I swipe in from the right with my thumb, it’s handy to have the start button and settings and search right there, but that was something that we wanted to fix for mouse and keyboard users as well. 
So let’s take a look at the start screen. When I go to the start screen, you’ll notice we’ve made a few changes here to make it easy for mouse and keyboard users to get to those functions. 
So right here, we’ve put a PC settings tile in because Windows 7 users expect to find settings or control panel on start. Up here, we’ve added a power button and a search button. So those functions which previously hung off your right thumb are now easy to find on start. 
The second thing we’ve tried to do is not just make it compatible so it’s easy to learn, but get all of the new value, Live Tiles, and a customizable start screen to be more familiar for Windows mouse and keyboard users. So we implemented a right-click context menu that pops up in a familiar way, a way that all mouse users have grown to love, and it makes it easy for me to do things like resize a tile into its large or small size, and so on. 
Even beyond that, there are power user commands that Windows users are familiar with, like holding down the control key and selecting a bunch of app tiles. And then when I do that, I can grab them all and drag them around together. I’ll move these tiles all to here, and you can see that set of three all moved. Or I can choose a set and change them all to small tiles. So I have a powerful and quick way to interact with the start screen via the mouse. 
OK. Now, the last thing I want to show are ways that we’ve improved Windows 8.1 via this update to help users find your apps. 
So I’m going to come back to the desktop, and I want to point out here, you might have noticed — and this is on all PCs that get the Windows 8.1 Update — we are pre-pinning the Windows Store to the task bar so that desktop mouse and keyboard users will find the store much more discoverable, it’s right there, it’s always available, and in fact, I also want to show you that — this is a store update that will be coming a little later. We’re improving the store UI to be really mouse- and keyboard-friendly. And instead of some of these functions being off-screen, handy if you have a touch tablet, but not so discoverable on a PC with no touch screen. Now it will be much easier for people to discover these categories, find recommended apps, so on and so on. 
So the store update, as well, is going to become mouse- and keyboard-friendly. And that’s something we’d like all of you to do with your apps. And we’re going to be providing samples for you and doing right-click menus and the kinds of things that make your UI discoverable and on screen for mouse and keyboard users. 
So that’s the first change. The second change that we’ve done besides making the store really visible is when people are using their PC to do things like searches, we want your apps to be present. So here I am on the start. And I could click search, or I could just start typing. And if I start typing something like “pinball” you’ll see right here, we recognize there are apps in the store that match. We serve them up to the user. So finding an app and installing an app is incredibly easy. Right there at the top of search, I can just click here to jump to the store and install that. 
And then the last thing is that we’ve seen some people get a little bit confused about where did the app go when I installed it? An installed app is no good if there’s not user engagement after the fact. So you see down here, just as in Windows 7, we added a prompt to show you where new apps are installed, and you see here that new apps are highlighted in the all apps list. And of course I can just right click on one and choose to pin it to my start screen or now pin it to my task bar. So whether I’m a desktop mouse and keyboard user or a tablet user focused on touch, I can find the apps I care about, I can make them accessible, and they work well in the modality that I care most about. 
So that is a quick look at the Windows 8.1 Update. The Windows 8.1 Update will be available to all Windows 8 and 8.1 users via Windows Update starting April 8th, next Tuesday. And for you developers, yeah, you have to wait until David Treadwell comes on stage to hear what we have for you as well. 
So that is my look at Windows Phone 8.1. One big, new operating system release from us, and the Windows 8.1 Update, a second that’s two in one. Thank you very much for listening. Have a terrific Build Conference, and especially thank you, Cortana. So long.  
 Thanks, Joe. I like your T-shirt. 
 Thank you. Thank you. It’s a pretty tough act to follow free Xbox, $500 and so forth, but I’m really excited to be here to share some of our own news. 
It is very much a really exciting time for us at this point in time. In just hopefully a few days or weeks those of us at Nokia will be joining the Microsoft team. The possibilities as we unite are endless. We are very focused on sparking more opportunities for developers like all of you. Together, we can bring people an amazing family of devices, of services, of applications, many of which you saw hinted at here today.
Now, in the context of today’s announcement that spark is somewhat lit by Windows Phone 8.1. Joe Belfiore did a great job of demonstrating some things that we’re very excited about. And, of course, the Nokia Lumia devices are the absolute best way to light up that Windows Phone 8.1 experience.
Now, the first thing that I’m very pleased to announce is that the Lumia device that you probably have in your pocket right now gets better with Windows Phone 8.1. 
We will bring Windows Phone 8.1 to all Lumia Windows Phone 8 devices offered in an over-the-air update coming this summer. That means people like you will immediately get access to that and have that on all of the existing devices, and your customers will have that as well.
So let me just show you what that means.
I’m going to invite Karan Nigam to come onstage to help me with a bit of demos here. He has a Lumia 520 in his hand, running Windows Phone 8.1, which is just amazing. Think about this for a second, in its price band the Lumia 520 is the best-selling smartphone in the world, bar none, compared to anything from Android. It’s a fantastic device. 
But here’s the thing, go check out your low-priced Android devices and see if they’re getting the latest innovation that’s coming out of Google, and the answer of course is no. So we’re very, very proud to be able to take that innovation to those price points.
Now, it’s also the case you would expect this type of capability to come on the higher-end devices. For example, here I have a Lumia 1520, fully loaded with Windows Phone 8.1. 
And in case you didn’t notice, for those of you who are tracking various announcements, we’re adding a bit more color to our portfolio in the days and weeks ahead, for example, this Lumia 1520 in bright green, one of many new colors coming for devices in the very near future. So we’re very excited to bring all of the developments that you saw with Windows Phone 8.1 to the existing portfolio of Windows Phone 8 devices.
But, of course, we’re also excited to introduce the next generation of Lumia devices that will be coming around the world. Let’s start off by introducing you to the Nokia Lumia 930. 
Ladies and gentlemen, this is the Nokia Lumia 930. We’re so proud to be able to announce that first here today. 
Now, the Lumia 930 is absolutely a flagship device built on and for Windows Phone 8.1. It integrates the best of Microsoft and the best of Lumia.
Now, as you can see in the video up there, as well as in my hands, the 930 is just a beautifully crafted device. It packs great Lumia innovation into an elegant smartphone, with metallic details around the side and vibrant new colors, sometimes matching wardrobe, which is a necessity.  
It has a bunch of great colors. Orange is one. You saw the bright green. And it has a crystal clear five-inch full HD display, with amazing readability in all conditions, an amazing viewing ratio, and even in spotlight conditions you can clearly read what’s on the screen. It’s just great outdoors.
We’ve also taken the time to integrate wireless charging into the device so you can power it up quite easily.  Love that, we all love the wireless charging. 
Now, naturally, as a flagship Lumia device, the Lumia 930 offers unprecedented images and videos. It comes with an advanced 20 megapixel PureView camera. It’s got optical image stabilization, so as that gentleman is shaking his hand with a competing device, I will get the clear picture, you’re getting the blurry picture.  And, of course, the high-quality Zeiss optics ensures that I get your picture and you don’t get mine. 
But it’s not just about great hardware, it’s also about the software, it’s about the algorithms, it’s about everything we put into it to make the imaging and video great.
For example, we have an application called Creative Studio that’s also being updated. It’s a popular app that allows you to edit the high-quality images directly on your smartphone. We’ve added more professional filters, high-res reframing, and nondestructive editing capabilities.
So, for example, you can see here some of the filters the team has added with just one click from Lumia 930. And, of course, you can easily share these images up to Instagram or Facebook or your favorite social network.
Now, we’ve also updated some other imaging software and added some new capabilities. For example, we’re introducing something called Living Images. These images come to life as you’re taking them and as you’re viewing them subsequently, and these Living Images can be weaved into a beautiful story using our Storyteller application, which is also being updated. 
Karan is going to show us an example here right now. And despite the rain, what we did over the last couple of days, the team went out and started to take some pictures here in the San Francisco area, and you’ll get a sense of the video that they were able to put together using Storyteller as well as the Living Images video.
OK, there it is coming up there.
 Now, as you see, what you’re actually getting are photos and videos that are automatically sorted and organized by time and location. You see the Living Images coming to life there as well.
Now, you might also notice that there’s a bit of music in the background. That’s a new feature to the Storyteller environment. You can always go back and edit that music, put your own themes against it, and create very quickly a beautiful experience. So there’s some new music that Karan has added. Again that can be shared to your social networks.
Now, the Lumia 930 also provides just fantastic cinematic video experiences. This is because we’ve included four high-performance digital microphones, and the Nokia rich recording capability into this device. As you record and then subsequently play back, you can hear the world around you like you’ve never heard it before. Let’s have a listen.
 There is more music than that in Finland, trust me when I tell you that.  But you can capture and relive your videos with complete surround sound capabilities right from this device, or you can actually focus the sound recording with directional stereo recording, so just some amazing capabilities packed into this device.
Now, because this is based on Windows Phone 8.1, all of your favorite Microsoft services are well-integrated into your Lumia. I can save the images and everything that we’ve done here, my documents, all of that right to OneDrive, and then, of course, sync that across my PC, my tablet and Xbox.
Now, you see the experience on this device, the speed of the applications is just amazing. We have built the Lumia 930 for absolute speed and performance. It has a 2.2 gigahertz Snapdragon 800 quad core processor in it. In short, the Lumia 930 just rocks, so your applications are just going to sing on this device. Thank you. 
Now, we’ll start selling the Lumia 930 globally in June. We will start in Europe and then move through Asia, India and the Middle East. Here in the U.S. we’ll be focusing on continuing with the Nokia Icon, which is a very similar device in terms of specifications to this, and of course the big boy that I showed you a few minutes ago, the Lumia 1520.
The Lumia 930 will be available with more than 100 operators around the world for around $599 before taxes and the subsidies that operators apply to the prices. So watch for that in the month of June.
So I’ll put this one in this pocket.
We have been successful not only in innovating our flagship products but also we’ve worked very hard to take that innovation to lower and lower price points, thus building on the success of the Lumia 520 that we celebrated earlier. I’d like to introduce you to two new Lumia products, the Nokia Lumia 630 and the Nokia Lumia 635. Let’s have a look.
 Here it is, the Nokia Lumia 630 and very similar to that the Lumia 635, just an amazing device as you’re about to hear. It brings an uncompromised Microsoft experience and an uncompromised Lumia experience to more people at much lower price points.
The 630 and 635 have a sleek design with a bright 4.5-inch ClearBlack display that is also great in the outdoor environments. They come in five stunning colors, with changeable shells. 
But here’s what’s really exciting me. The Lumia 630 comes in two variants, a 3G single SIM variant, as you’d expect, and the very first Lumia with 3G dual-SIM capabilities, enabled by Windows Phone 8.1, which is just a huge opportunity for all of us to broaden the reach of our applications to many more people.
And then the Lumia 635 comes packed with lightning fast 4G LTE capabilities, so we have the full range of radio requirements.
So let’s go to a quick demo of that new variant, in particular the dual SIM phone so you can get a sense of that.
So we’re going to start off and you should be seeing up there the Lumia 630. First of all, this is a relatively low price device carrying on from the 520, and you can see that the three column capabilities are visible even on these smaller screen sizes on these lower priced devices, which is a big step forward.
Now, you can also see the beginning of the way dual SIM represents itself in Windows Phone 8.1. It’s really simple to use and understand.
So across the top you see two different colored tiles for each of the two SIM cards that are in the phone. On this particular device Karan has red tiles for the calls and messages from his first SIM, and he’s named that SIM “business,” and he has orange tiles for the calls and messages from his second SIM card, and that one he has named “personal.” Now, this helps to ensure that there’s no confusion or overlap between the messages and call history from one SIM versus the other.
But some of us want to work differently, and we may actually want to have the call histories and texting and everything blurred between those two environments or integrated, in which case you can just change the setting and the two SIMs make the phone work as one device with two different calling paths, which is really amazing.
Now, something I like is that you can also go to your contacts in your people hub, and you can specify for individual people which SIM card should be used when you’re texting or calling that individual. So without having to switch between SIMs you can just say, hey, when I’m calling my son I want to use my personal SIM or whatever the case may be.
Now, in many markets, particularly emerging markets like India and China, Brazil, this dual-SIM capability is critically important. Analysts suggest that in the year 2016 people will buy more than 100 million dual-SIM smartphones. The Lumia 630 dual-SIM capability opens up that market to all of us, so I’m really, really excited about that.
Now, the Lumia 630 is designed for hypersocial people who love to play games, and we have their favorite games. You can quickly go to their favorite Xbox game by tapping on the screen, or as we saw with Joe earlier today, you can use Cortana.
Now, it’s really great news that Cortana, as it’s rolled out around the world, will be available on the entire range of Windows Phone 8 devices, including the 630, our most affordable Windows Phone 8.1 device.
Today, our competitors have various voice assistant capabilities, heavily biased towards the high-end devices. We are bringing that innovation to all of the different price points, so that innovation is available to everyone, which I think is really good. It’s going to be good for your applications. 
Now, for the really, really price conscious consumer, someone who might have just bought into a Lumia 630, perhaps as their first smartphone, these devices are also great ways to get the benefits of the equivalent of an expensive fitness band or wearable device.
What we are doing is introducing into these devices something new called SensorCore. This is a very low-power sensing capability that tracks motion and location. So now people can use their Lumia to keep track of their steps and calories burned using, as Karan is showing, the Bing Health and Fitness application.
You can even have this working when the Lumia device is in your pocket or in your bag, it doesn’t matter. This thing keeps track of your movements so that you can follow your improvements and your progress, built right into the device.
Now, let’s go back to the home screen. Final point I want to make about these devices is they are Lumia devices. So there’s many things we’ve come to expect as part of that experience, including Nokia MixRadio where you get at no additional cost the equivalent of your own personal radio station with more than 30 million songs, the cost of which is built into the device. You can save music offline, you can pin to the home screen your favorite playlists and all of that to make it a truly personal experience.
Similarly, you can use HERE Maps, you can download those maps. And again in many of the markets in which we sell devices the ability to download off of Wi-Fi a map and then not to be using over-the-air wireless charges to do that is fantastic.
Here Karan has pinned to the home screen a particular location, the Terra Gallery, where we’re hosting a media reception later today, so the journalists here today can get firsthand experience with these new devices.
So the Lumia 930, 630, 635, Karan, thank you very much for joining me onstage. Thank you. 
Now, all of these great experiences are packed inside these robust devices. The 630 and 635, for those of you keeping score, 1.2 gigahertz Snapdragon 400 quad-core processor, at some amazing price points. So SensorCore, pictures, videos, MixRadio, HERE Maps, all of that are just going to operate so well.
So in short, the Lumia 630, the 635 deliver people an entry point to the Windows Phone experience with absolutely uncompromised performance.
Now, these devices, the Lumia 630 and 635, will be the very first Lumia devices that are being sold with Windows Phone 8.1, and that will be in the month of May. 
We have received more operator support for the launch of these devices than any other Lumia device to date, and that’s based on the growing number of applications, the success of the 520, and everything that we have going. So literally hundreds of operators will be ranging the 630 and 635. We’ll start the rollout in Asia, move through India, the Middle East, South America and Europe, and will be here in the U.S. broadly with our partners starting in July. So you’ll see this ripple around the world, and we expect to sell a lot of these devices.
Pricing, the Lumia 630, 3G single SIM will be priced around $159. If it’s a dual-SIM device it will be $169. And if it’s the 635 4G version it will be $189, all before taxes and local subsidies. Here in the U.S., of course, the pricing’s quite different based on the operators, but very, very aggressive price points for a device that is going to compete amazingly well with anything that’s coming from the competition from a specification perspective.
So some great new devices coming for you. Thank you. That’s really good. 
Now, you have also seen a pattern from Nokia and obviously from Microsoft that as we build some of this great innovation we want to make sure that you can build on it as well. So the great hardware, the great software that you see, we’re also trying to continue to build new opportunities for developers.
I want to say first of all a very heartfelt thank you, and that is thank you for adding 500 new applications to the Windows Phone store literally every day. So thank you very much on behalf of Nokia and Microsoft for doing that. 
But to take this even further, I’m also pleased to announce that we are bringing developers to all of you two new SDKs, a new imagine SDK and a new sensor core SDK.
For imaging today we are releasing a preview of our imaging SDK 1.2, which makes creating the next generation of imaging apps faster and easier. The final version will be available in just a few weeks. It includes things like image manipulation capabilities, filter effects and on-screen rendering.
As well the new SensorCore SDK is based on that SensorCore technology we demonstrated with the health and fitness application. With the SensorCore SDK you’ll be able to create motion-based applications that are location- and context-aware while using very, very little battery power.
With these two new SDKs our ambition is to help all of you give people some really unique experiences.
So in summary, I’m pleased to introduce the new portfolio or if I may say the beginning of the new portfolio of Lumia devices built on Windows Phone 8.1. Today, it’s the 630, the 635 and the 930, but of course the existing Windows Phone 8 devices from the 520 to the 1520, which will all soon be running Windows Phone 8.1.
So yes, today is an exciting day for all of us, but I know that myself and all of my colleagues at Nokia are truly looking forward to when we can come together with our colleagues at Microsoft. We will continue to open up new opportunities for Microsoft, for our partners, for you, our developers, and most of all for people around the globe.
Thank you and we look forward to sharing more with you in the very near future. Thank you very much. 
Now, if I may make one last comment to introduce the next speaker, you may have noticed a lot of things are changing at Microsoft, a lot is going on, and arguably one of the most profound changes is that for only the third time in Microsoft history there is a new CEO of the company. So it is a great honor and privilege of mine to introduce the new CEO of Microsoft, Mr. Satya Nadella. Please join me. 
 You guys are killing it. But keep in mind everything I was saying was recorded two weeks ago. 
 All right, so we’ve been at this two hours. You guys ready for the good stuff now?  All right.
Well, what Joe and Dave just spent that time talking about was a bunch of software that we are going to make available within days or maybe even a few weeks. But the No. 1 feedback we’ve gotten from you for the last many years at Build is will you please share your road map with us, will you please tell us what’s coming. We’re investing with you; we want to arrive at a great place with you, and to do that we need to know where you’re going.
So everything I’m going to talk about for the rest of this talk is not coming within the next few days or the next few weeks, but we wanted to share with you, our most important partners, so we can make those investments and build great things for our customers together when the software arrives.
So with that in mind, what David talked about was bringing these universal Windows applications to the PC, the phone and the tablet. But there’s one screen he didn’t talk about and that’s the television. 
There’s no better TV experience out there than Xbox.  I mean, Xbox right now is being actively used on 80 million televisions in living rooms all over the world. The engagement with Xbox is just phenomenal. With our new Xbox One platform the average user is using it five hours per day. And what we are going to enable is your universal Windows applications running on the Xbox. 
So to demonstrate that, I want to use Khan Academy. Khan Academy is just a phenomenal organization that distributed educational content, videos to students all over the world, a whole variety of subjects. 
Their experience starts here with their website. Last year, at Build we showed how easy it was to take this website and turn it into this Windows web application. With Windows Phone 8.1 Dave just demonstrated how straightforward for Khan Academy to create this Windows Phone application. But as we bring the universal Windows apps to the Xbox, we’re working with Kahn Academy to now bring their application to the Xbox.
So here it is, Khan Academy. 
Xbox, stop listening.  
So you can see here is the Khan Academy application, the same application on the Xbox.
And so let’s go over here and see what this looks like in Visual Studio. Here it is, Khan Academy projects, the unique code for the Windows application, the unique code for the Windows Phone application, the unique code for the Xbox, when most of the code all of the assets, all of the business logic, and a lot of the layout is down here in the shared common part of the project.
And so I can come here, here’s the homepage, and what I’m going to do is I’m going to comment out this new pane in our application, the knowledge map. And then I’m going to press play in Visual Studio, and what it’s going to do is it’s going to recompile this application for each of these targets, for Windows, Windows Phone and Xbox. It’s then going to automatically deploy to each of those targets, and we can watch our application come to life with this new pane on each of these targets.
So first we’ll see the Xbox. The app was deleted. It’s reloading on the Xbox and coming back up. The phone’s restarting, Windows restarted, and you can see on each of these we now have this knowledge map that’s showed up on all three of these devices from that one project in Visual Studio. That’s pretty cool.  There it is on the phone.
Now, if you’re going to put an application on the Xbox, you can’t just make it work with a controller. You really need to think about how you’re going to take advantage of Kinect.
And so in that same project here I am using Kinect to control the Khan Academy application from that Visual Studio project, shared source, one interaction model across platforms. That’s pretty cool. 
So we should talk about Kinect. Kinect was introduced a few years ago, and I’m sure many of you had an experience like myself. When I first saw it, I thought, hey, that’s pretty neat. But then I took it home and played Kinect Sports with my son or my daughter for some reason really likes playing Dance Central with me, which is just truly ugly to watch, but there’s just something magical about this Kinect experience. It’s a whole new way of interacting with the computer. You have this feeling that this is the future.
And so it’s so important to us to bring Kinect to the PC, and that is why a few years ago we introduced Kinect for Windows. And the response from all of you was pretty phenomenal, over 1 million SDK downloads, 400,000 active developers with Kinect. I mean, it’s just terrific work you all are doing.
And so I’m pretty excited today to announce Kinect v.2 for Windows. Now, the version 2 Kinect for Windows builds off of the sensors that ship with the new Xbox One. This is a 1080p camera with an incredibly wide field of view, so you can now build applications with a subject that’s much closer to the camera or works in a much smaller room.
The SDK has greatly improved skeletal tracking, facial tracking, gesture recognition, and really works well in low light.
And the applications that are being built with Kinect for Windows, it’s not just games. We’re seeing work done that’s incredibly creative. 
I want to highlight two companies that are in a video I’m about to show. The first one Reflexion Health, is trying to revolutionize physical therapy. And Freakin’ Genius, which really is the company name and it’s a pretty cool company name, but Freakin’ Genius is trying to bring the art of animation to everyone, all with Kinect.
 So let’s go back to that same Khan Academy application in Visual Studio, and here I am using the same gesture on the PC that I was using on the Xbox to navigate in this app.
And so let me just close talking about Kinect to say I really think you should explore this. We think this is the future. We think this is the way that we will all be interacting with our computers in some time. These cameras are going to become pervasive, and I would encourage all of us to really be creative about how we can take advantage of them.
Now, I can’t talk about Xbox technology without talking about graphics. The graphics that are on the new Xbox One are really phenomenal. I mean, this is a live action shot of someone playing “Forza” from Turn 10 Studios backstage. I mean, the photorealism in these games is just phenomenal. I mean, it’s magical when you see this take place on the Xbox.
And what makes this possible on the Xbox is that the Xbox graphics platform has an amazing level of low-level control and efficiency, which allows these artists to really envision what’s possible and then make it take place in front of the user.
So we want this graphics technology to be available for everyone on every platform, whether it be for medical imaging applications, computer-aided design, or any application that would want this same immersive experience.
And so we’re going to do that by bringing the magic of the Xbox graphics platform into DirectX 12, and bring DirectX 12 across all of our devices. Windows Phone, Windows and Xbox will all have the same graphics platform in DirectX 12. That’s pretty good; come on. 
And DirectX 12, I mean, it really is phenomenal technology. We’re talking about a graphics technology that scales from our lowest and most inexpensive Nokia Windows Phone to our PCs to Xbox to these big honking graphics cards that have these jet turbine engines to cool them off to support this amazing gameplay from our most hardcore gamers, one graphic technology that scales, one API surface that efficiently takes advantage of all the GPU horsepower you can throw at, without taxing the CPU.
And so to see what’s possible, we asked Turn 10 Studios, the makers of “Forza,” to work with NVIDIA, who has the really early DX 12 driver, to say, hey, what’s possible, what will it be like when we bring DX 12 to the PC. And so I’m going to try and play and show you that, and I’m not going to be able to drive as well as the people backstage.
But you can see here this is the PC, this is a PC running DX 12, with some of the same photorealism you saw on the Xbox. The different graphics cards will have different capabilities, but there are not PC games like this. This is just phenomenal, this is so cool just to see this level of artistry, this level of graphics on the PC. 
All right, I should stop playing now.
And so we’ve talked about the PC, we’ve talked about the phone, we’ve talked about the tablet, we’ve talked about the Xbox. But there’s a whole class of devices our industry is abuzz with right now that are broadly called the Internet of Things.
And what’s making these new devices possible I really think are these phenomenal breakthroughs in the silicon ecosystem. Where we used to have these large motherboards, we now have these incredibly small, incredibly powerful chips. 
We’ve ported Windows to ARM, but one company that’s really done some incredible work lately is Intel. 
You know, I have here Intel’s Galileo development board, and right in the center of it is this tiny little chip, their Quark chip. That chip, which is the size of a pencil eraser or your mouse cursor, this is a full X86 system-on-a-chip. This is a PC chip right there.
And then so you have to ask yourself, what’s possible, what kind of devices are possible when a PC runs on something the size of an eraser?
And so Intel’s shipped this development board, this Galileo board, and we have this great garage community at Microsoft who asked themselves, what should we do with it? So they decided to build a piano.
This piano is powered by that tiny little chip. Is this a piano, is this a PC, is this a — it’s a piano. It’s a piano that runs Windows. I think it’s the first ever piano that runs Windows. 
And so this piano was built leveraging — this was a Windows developer that started with what’s possible, they leveraged all their skills, all the tools they know and asked themselves, what can we create? Just love the creativity. 
And to show you this really is Windows, here we’re going to telnet into the piano. You can see that it’s running the Windows 8.1 kernel. We can go and see is David’s ancillary function driver there for us to use. There it is.  And it can run Windows apps.
So let me invite Joe up onstage, who’s a lot more musical than myself, and what I’m going to do now is I am going to — here’s the Windows — oh, I guess we won’t do that. So what I’ll do is — where’s the debugger? Here I’m going to attach the debugger to our piano.
 Always ready to be here to act as a human foil for a demo.
 Yes, all right. 
And so as Joe, who plays the piano now — go for it, Joe — we can all enjoy the debug spew from this Windows piano.
 My career as a tester begins. 
 So using the Windows tools that we know how to use and we have so much experience with, we can debug our piano or maybe even debug our musicians. 
But what’s so great about this Internet of Things is that it’s not just about the thing, it’s also about the fact that they’re connected to the Internet. And so this Windows application on the device is feeding all of this telemetry and data back to an Azure data service.
So here I’m going to show you a portal into that Azure data service, which is connected to the piano, and ask Joe to play it again, Sam.
 How about for the Internet this time the melody? That’s good enough.  It’s nice to be the more childlike smaller version of you for this demo. 
 So we don’t share this with you today because we expect many of you to be building pianos, but we are at a time where the devices that we are programming to are going to change. And leveraging all the skills and tools that we have, and leveraging all of the creativity that we have in this room, we should be making some amazing devices that do amazing things that connect to the cloud. So let’s make it happen. 
OK, so now we’ve talked about the PC, the phone, the tablet, the Xbox, and the Internet of Things. But one thing which I have not talked about is the Windows desktop.
One-point-five billion PC users out there, hundreds of millions of new PCs a year, and this is the primary interface they’re interacting with. 
Now, Joe shared some amazing work the team’s doing to make that a great experience for every user on the PC, and I’m not here to announce the next version of Windows. But I am going to share that we are going all in with this desktop experience to make sure your applications can be accessed and loved by people that love the Windows desktop.
So for starters we are going to enable your universal Windows applications to run in a window. 
And we’re going to enable your users to find, discover and run your Windows applications with the new Start menu. 
You can see here we have Live Tiles coming together with the familiar experience customers are looking for, some customers are looking for to start and run their applications, and we will be making this available to all Windows 8.1 users as an update. So I think there will be a lot of happy people out there. 
So something that now we want to share is we really want to get this platform out there. We want to remove all the friction between you and creating these devices, remove any hesitation you have to apply that creativity to creating new Internet of Things devices. So I want to announce today that when we have this new Windows for the Internet of Things available, Windows will be available for zero dollars. 
But we’re not stopping there. Again, to drive adoption of your applications and get your applications out there for more customers, on phones and tablets with screen sizes less than nine inches we are making Windows available now for zero dollars.  All about getting your apps out there.
So we’ve talked about a lot today now. We’ve talked about Windows, Windows Phone, Xbox, Internet of Things, the Windows desktop, removing friction to getting your applications out to our customers. But a concern that we all have is that some of this technology really is rooted in the Xbox experience. I mean, you really have to appreciate this immersive gaming on the Xbox, and Kinect, to really appreciate some of the stuff we’ve talked about. And we’re also concerned some of you just aren’t having as much fun as all of us at Microsoft with the Xbox One. 
So I want to announce today that we’re giving a free Xbox One to everyone in the audience here at Build.
But let’s not stop there. We also want to make sure that everyone here has the opportunity to really appreciate the great work being done by our OEM partners, by Nokia, by our Surface team. So we also want to give everyone in the audience a $500 gift card to the Microsoft Store to choose a new device to do your best work on. 
So let me just leave you with a few beliefs that really do guide us as we plan our platform road map.
We really do believe in this natural user interface. We believe in these gestures, we believe in voice, and we believe the applications of the future are really going to interact with humans using these techniques.
We really do believe in the Internet of Things. We think as the screens get smaller and the devices get smaller, the cloud gets bigger, and we’re going to make some incredibly new things possible.
And last but not least, we believe in all of you. We believe in our OEMs and device diversity, we believe in our developers and the best is yet to come, and we’re here to help you guys do it.
Thank you. 
So with that, let me introduce our next speaker. His company has created over 80 percent of the Windows Phones that are being used by all of you. When we finish the acquisition of the Nokia Devices Group, we’ll be able to invest even more in his team and their ability to drive Windows Phone success. So please join me in welcoming Stephen Elop. 
 Thank you so much, Stephen. 
Thank you so much. Backstage I was able to get one of these 930s. It’s a real sweet device. I saw that Stephen had even color-coordinated shoes. I need to get those, too. 
It’s fantastic to be at Build. In fact, I was just reflecting, I think Terry said this is the 22nd year. In fact, I was in San Francisco for the very first PDC. I was not yet at Microsoft. This is when the Windows 32, WIN32 APIs were unveiled. And ever since I think I’ve not missed a PDC or a developer conference. So it’s fantastic to be here with all of you.
And it’s also, I was reflecting on it and saying, gosh, what happened, like why don’t I have a proper keynote anymore at developer conferences, and this is one of those privileges you lose when you get kicked upstairs, you don’t have your own keynote anymore.  But it’s awesome to be here.
In fact, if you think about what developers mean to us, it’s pretty deep. We started out as a company that was focused on developers. We were a tools company before we were an Office company before we were a Windows company. 
I was, in fact, talking to Paul Allen very recently, and he was reminiscing about his days when he was porting BASIC to all these new PC platforms, as he called it. And guess what, we are again in that sort of era right now. And you saw from Terry the entirety of the Windows family, from Internet of Things to the consoles to tablets to phones to PCs. We have that proliferation of what I talk about as ubiquitous computing and ambient intelligence or this mobile-first, cloud-first world where Windows is prevalent.
So it’s exciting times for us and exciting times for developers in terms of the opportunity to be able to take your creativity, your applications, your systems, and then bring them forth to Windows as it evolves.
So we thought about what’s the best way for me to have a dialogue with 5,000 of my closest developer friends, and we figured that it’s probably a little logistical nightmare to try and do an open Q&A. So what we did was our evangelism group went out and got questions that are top of mind for all developers, some of them who are here, some in fact who are watching on the webcast, and recorded those questions. These are actually pretty hard questions and what’s really top of mind for you.
So what we’ll do is we’ll play those questions and I’ll have a chance to respond and give you what I have as both my perspective on it, as well as answers to some of the key things that you want answers to.
So let’s roll the first video with the first question.
 Hi. My name is Rob Mezza. I’m currently a developer at Lob.com. 
I work on the Android platform, and I was wondering why I should consider using Windows.
 It’s pretty straight, why build for Windows. That’s the question, that’s the question of the conference, that’s the question of this morning, and I want to give you a very, very straight answer to it.
You want to build for Windows because we are going to innovate with a challenger mindset. We’re not coming at this as some incumbent trying to do the next version of Windows. We’re going to come at this by innovating in every dimension, the dimension of hardware, the software experiences across the Windows family, and go after this in such a way that you see us make progress with rapid pace.
In fact, today was a massive milestone. If you look at what we’ve done on the phone, the update to the PC and tablet, the new devices Stephen showed, this is all what you can come to expect from us, and we’ll keep pushing at it.
There will be a couple of things that will be pretty unique to what we do. One is what I call the sensibility we have of bringing end users, developers and IT professionals together. That’s one thing that we’ve always felt is what birthed the magic of platforms, from sort of the first version of Windows to what we think is Windows in this era of mobile first, cloud first.
And then the second real attribute for us is to be able to create a developer opportunity which is broad. So one of the things that we are doing is making sure that the opportunity for you as developers across the Windows family is expanding. Some of the changes that both Joe described and Terry alluded to where we are going, which is to be able to make your new applications built for WinRT and the Windows Store, in fact, the fact that you can use them in the desktop mode, that completely opens up a huge base of users for your applications that you’re targeting Windows with.
So this notion of creating the broadest Windows opportunity for your sockets for you is a huge priority for us, and we have huge volume still. We have hundreds of millions of PCs, tablets and phones still on a run-rate basis, and a billion-plus PCs that will all be upgrading. So therefore we have a significant opportunity for any application you target Windows.
And then the last thing is, we are betting on this platform ourselves. You saw from Kirk Koenigsbauer how we’re building the next generation of Office applications for this platform. So we are going to basically use the same platform that we want you to target to build our own set of applications.
So those would be the three reasons, because we’re going to innovate with a challenger mindset, we’re going to create the broadest platform opportunity in terms of sockets for you, and we are going to bet on that platform ourselves, and that’s the reason why you should target Windows. 
Let’s go to the next question.
 Hi. My name is Sadarth Merching, and I’m one of the organizers of Hacktag, which is currently the largest student-run hackathon on the West Coast.
At hackathons most of my friends and I want students who use our apps to be able to use them regardless of what devices they own. So do you have any plans for ensuring that apps developed on Microsoft platforms easily port over to other platforms?
 You know, David Treadwell talked pretty eloquently about this. One of the core principles we have is we want to make it possible for every developer to bring their code assets forward and to be able to leverage their code assets they build in a very broad way, across our own family but also cross-platform. That’s the principle that drives us, because we know, I mean, it’s crazy to abandon what you’ve built and it’s also crazy not to be able to take what you have done and leverage it across the broadest spectrum of device targets. And that’s really the approach that we want to enable.
The first thing I would say is if you look at the platform itself that David went through, we’re the only platform that has APIs with language bindings across both native, managed and Web. And the fact that that flexibility exists means you can build your core libraries in the language of your choice and those core libraries you can take cross-platform, obviously the Web being the one that’s sort of easiest to conceptualize, and that’s what we have done even by taking WinJS and putting it into open source and making it a community effort so that you can take it cross-platform. 
But we’re also working with PhoneGap, we’re working with Xamarin and of course Unity to be able to help you take what you build for Windows cross-platform, and that particular sort of sensibility of being able to take your code, leverage it across the Windows family itself with our tool chain, but to be able to take your core libraries cross-platform is something that you can expect us to continue to partner well with, use open source, but be very, very mindful about how we enable you to do that.
All right, the next question.
 Hey, Satya. I’m Derek. I’m a CS major from Stanford.
One question I did have was, I have a Surface Pro and I use it every day at school, but I notice most people either use iPads or they use Android tablets. And I was wondering, what is Microsoft doing to compete against Google and Apple in the tablet space?
 When it comes to tablets there are multiple dimensions of being competitive, and we’re going to make sure we make progress on all of those. Great devices, it starts there, great software on that device, and then to have apps, as well as great price points. Those are the four dimensions I think of when I think about how do you get competitive with tablets.
The 8.1 update is a big milestone on it. We have really made it possible now to have tablets across the full price range. So you will have many partners of ours produce tablets that will have the full range of prices and to be able to really make sure we have tablets that anyone, from a student to a professional, can use.
Now, the second, when it comes to Surface itself, we will continue to innovate in driving what I think is the most productive tablet out there in the marketplace. And especially in combination with Office, as we build out these native applications for the new platform, you will see us continue to strive to make Surface the most productive tablet out there in the market.
But when we sort of talk about tablet competitiveness, the key thing that we look at is what is the role of a tablet in a user’s device family, because if there was one thing in this morning’s keynote, it’s the Windows family. It’s the consistency for the user, it’s the consistency for the developer, and that’s what we obsess about. 
And to be able to talk about the tablet competitiveness to the exclusion of that family is not where we are going. So therefore we want our users to think about the Windows family of devices and the consistency of the user experience, and then from a developer perspective it’s the developer consistency, and that’s how we get very competitive.
All right, let’s go to the next question.
 Hi. My name is Anna Gabriela. I’m originally from Mexico City. I’m a U.S. designer and I really like designing applications for Windows, especially phone and tablet.
My question for you today would be, how do you see the approach of UX design inside Microsoft, and how do you see this in five years? For example, do you see more like on touch side or would be more sensor, voice commands? That would be very interesting to know.
 When it comes to design and user experience, we’ve come a long way. We have a fantastic team of people who are doing awesome work, and you see it. You see it in this personalized Live Tile experiences that we have created across the entire Windows family. In fact, we are now inspiration in some sense for other platforms even in terms of design. And so you can expect us to continue to push the envelope on it. 
And this natural interface is definitely the frontier. Today, you see — in fact, this morning’s keynote stressed how we are thinking about gestures, how we are thinking about speech, with Cortana in fact a conversational agent. We are thinking about obviously about how do we even make modern applications still work with mouse and keyboard. So it’s a broad agenda when it comes to natural user interface.
And I subscribe to what I think Bill Buxton, who is a researcher in Microsoft Research, talks about when you sort of reflect on what is natural about natural user interface. It’s the context, which is who, where, what, when, should define the type of interface that you want to use with your application on the device. And to me that matters a lot, because speech probably is the best interface with any device when you’re in the car. And to be able to get that right and to have applications interact with you in the right modality becomes very important, and to be able to do that with these natural user interface advances in Windows is a pretty top priority for us. 
And I would say we are the ones who have the broadest range of input modes today that we are really innovating with across the Windows family, and you can continue to see us do so going forward.
All right, let’s roll the next question.
 Hi. I’m Michael Purdue, an architect for GE Healthcare.
As Microsoft invests more heavily in the cloud, vendors are wondering how they can design for the cloud, not simply migrate there. How will Microsoft support those vendors, particularly in the healthcare space, to do that seamlessly?
 You’re going to hear a lot more tomorrow in Scott Guthrie’s keynote about all the advances in our cloud, but one of the things that we started our cloud effort with was with a very first-class notion of what is the cloud design point, what does it mean to build a native cloud app. In fact, the entire back end for “Titanfall” was built on this cloud service called Thunderhead, which runs on Azure, and it’s got these amazing attributes. In fact, we are exercising those as on the day one how we elastically scaled out that infrastructure and then scaled it back down for day one.
That notion of writing to the cloud design point where you have your data tier built for scale-out, that means you want to be able to partition your data for scale-out becomes a first-class problem that you’ve got to solve with a developer, you want to make your middle tier stateless so that you’re both resilient to failure and you can also really scale.
The last thing is you want to be able to have all interactions async with your devices so you’re not blocking. In many cases, especially in healthcare, you may want to rendezvous back with data inside your datacenter because you’re not putting everything in a public cloud and you make that a message passing system between the public cloud and your private cloud, and we have some great technologies like service bus.
So really understanding the capabilities of the platform so that you can build cloud-native apps and cloud-first apps is very important to us, and we have put a lot of focus on tooling, samples, patterns that we want to encourage developers to use to build, if you will, these applications that truly take advantage of the cloud versus just bringing your existing application to run in a virtual machine in the cloud.
All right, let’s go to the next question.
 Hi. I’m David Yak. I’m a developer from Colorado Springs, Colorado, and my question today is around the different APIs that Microsoft releases for each of their products. Today, developers have to relearn each time they pick up a new product. Is there something Microsoft can do to simplify that across the different products?
 Yeah, for sure we can and we are and we will continue to drive that. And this again came across, across all the keynotes this morning. The Windows Universal App, of course, is a first step in this direction. The APIs, I would say 90 percent of them now are consistent between Windows Phone and Windows tablets and PCs and that’s fantastic to see. We’ll continue to push that. Everything I know is pretty irritating to have the camera API being different or the life cycle and the controls, and we are fixing all of that, and really bringing that consistency for developers so that you can have that shared library across a variety of device targets.
And on the back end, of course, we’ve got great consistency. If you’re a .NET developer, if you look at what we have done on Windows Server to Azure and with Visual Studio, we have made it much more seamless for you to be able to move your existing code and have consistency of the semantics of the API across all of these platforms, and you will continue to push on that, and it’s a pretty big focus for us.
All right, let’s go to the next question.
 Hi. My name is Ross. I’m a developer from Austin, Texas.
As we move more and more resources to the cloud, I’m curious what’s the plan to deal with latency?
 Latency is an industrywide issue. We have to start with developers building applications knowing that there is speed-of-light issues that get in the way. There is the Internet, there is the edge, and to be able to sort of really design your applications for it and to build a platform that is robust in terms of providing the best latency characteristics.
So we are doing a lot in terms of just the capital investment that’s required to be ready for this. We have spent over $15 billion to make sure that all our cloud services and our datacenters are there everywhere. We have 18 regions of Windows Azure, which is the maximum, is the most that any public cloud has. We have 1 billion users on any given day using Microsoft services all over the globe in 90-plus countries, so we have a great footprint. We are making sure that we do things on the edge. We are doing things to be able to cache our storage at the edge, to be able to improve latency. 
And once you get to the datacenter you have to also still take care of both the North-South, as well as the East-West, so we’re putting in the right networking infrastructure, which is all software controlled, so that we can absolutely manage the best latency characteristics for your applications.
So we have a significant focus on making sure that the apps that you build run great in a geo-distributed way. And, in fact, in tomorrow’s keynotes you will some cool innovations in a service called Traffic Manager. So if you’re a developer, you’ve built an application, you want it to be available in China, in Asia, in Europe and in North America, you can take this Traffic Manager and then geo-distribute your application across the datacenters and route traffic in intelligent ways so that the user, the end user, gets the best performance characteristics they deserve.
So those are the things that we are doing to really help developers tackle the latency issues.
All right, let’s go to the next question.
 Hi, Satya. My name’s Jonathan Nelson. I’m the founder of Hackers and Founders. We’re the largest group of nerds building startups in Silicon Valley. We have 12,000 members in Silicon Valley alone, and about 100,000 members globally.
I’d love to hear your thoughts on how Microsoft can better help and support startups as they grow.
 Startups as a community is very important for us. We have the BizSpark program. I’d really encourage, if there’s anyone in a startup here, if you have not sort of looked at BizSpark benefits, it’s perhaps the best startup program with the benefits packages that go with it, both in terms of devices as well as the cloud. We have got over 75,000 startups who have taken advantage of BizSpark across the globe.
We also have gotten started with Microsoft Ventures, which I’m very excited about. It’s small today but we plan to expand it, plan to learn from it. It’s got both community outreach to startups and community programs, but also seed funding and accelerators. So we now have accelerators in Silicon Valley, in Seattle, in Berlin, in Israel, in India and in China. And so it’s fantastic for us to be engaged with startups right at the seed round and create these accelerators where you get an opportunity to work with the latest and greatest Microsoft technology. 
And so we’ll continue to push this, and feedback on this obviously is also welcome, but engaging the startup community in Silicon Valley and elsewhere is a big priority for us.
All right, let’s go to the next question.
 Hi. I’m Dr. Nils from nsquared, headquartered in Sydney, Australia.
And Satya, I’d like to ask you a question about the vision for Microsoft. When I first started working with Microsoft technology 20-something years ago, the vision was very much around a computer on every desk, and that’s pretty much been achieved. So what’s the vision for Microsoft going forward?
 Our vision, simply put, is to thrive in this world of mobile first, cloud first going forward. There is going to be more ubiquitous computing everywhere and there’s going to be ambient intelligence everywhere. So that means there will be more new form factors because of the coevolution of silicon, hardware systems and software. There is everything that we do is going to get more digitized. So that means every human interaction with another human, the human to machine interaction, as well as machine to machine interaction all get digitized. You get to reason over all this data to be able to, in fact, improve the fidelity of those interactions using techniques like machine learning.
So that’s the world that we are going into, and our goal is to really build platforms, create the best end-user experiences, the best developer opportunities and IT infrastructure for this ubiquitous computing or mobile-first, cloud-first world. And that’s really our vision, and hopefully you got a glimpse of some of the steps we are taking across the entire Windows family in this morning’s keynotes.
All right, let’s end with a question from our new friend that we met this morning, Cortana. 
 Hi, this is Cortana. Now you’re chief executive officer, do you have any plans to become a master chief executive officer?  
 Sure. Remind me to become master chief in 500 years.
 OK, I’ll remind you to become master chief on Monday, April 2nd, 2514. 
 Great. Great, remind me to watch Scott Guthrie tomorrow morning at 8:30.
 Sure. I can remind you to watch Scott Guthrie’s keynote tomorrow at 8:30 a.m. Sound good?
 Sounds great.
 OK, your presentation is ending now. Would you like any exit music?
 Sure. Play “It’s Time” by Imagine Dragons.
Thank you very, very much, Build. Have a fantastic time at the rest of the developer conference. Thank you. 
 Next up, David Treadwell, corporate vice president, Operating Systems Group.
 Hello, Build.  Good morning. 
Well, that was a great look at what we’re doing in Windows and Windows Phone. Joe did some awesome demos, really a super job. 
Well, I get to talk to you about what we’re doing for you as developers in our operating systems, our platforms, our tools. 
First, let me take a moment to introduce myself. Dave Treadwell. I’ve worked at Microsoft for almost 25 years. During that whole time, I’ve always been involved in our developer technologies, our platform, our operating systems. 
I started on the Windows NT group in the networking team. And I want to tell you a story that I’ve actually never told publicly before about one of my early projects. 
My manager at the time, a fellow named Dave Thompson, assigned me to write the Windows sockets infrastructure for NT. And when he gave me this assignment, he gave me one criteria. He said, “Dave, whatever you do, don’t create a driver.” And the reason was totally legitimate. Drivers are complicated. They use more system resources. If you have a bug, they can crash the system. It’s tough to get a driver right. 
So I went off and I worked to design this thing. And a couple weeks later, I kind of figured it out. But I concluded that, you guessed it, I actually needed a driver. 
And we had a design review meeting with myself, my boss Dave, and several other senior engineers. And we went over my proposed design for this. And the reason I needed a driver was that I needed socket handles to be native system handles. And the only way to achieve that at the time was with a driver. 
So we had this meeting, two hours long, we’re trying to find some other way to get socket handles as native handles without a driver. But the conclusion of the meeting at the end of it was: Yes, in fact, we really do need a driver. 
I’ll never forget this. Dave, my boss, he pounded his fist on the table and he said, “Gosh, darn it, another freaking driver.”  Maybe not exactly those words, but that was the tone of it.  
And I looked at him and I said, “Well, that’s cool, that’s what I’m going to call it.” Because it turns out that at that time in our build system, you couldn’t have a DLL and a driver with the same name. We needed winsock.dll for the DLL and I couldn’t use that for the driver. 
So a couple days later, I checked in the beginnings of this new driver. And Dave came by my office and he said, “Hey, what’s this AFD thing you just checked in?”  And I told him — remember, that’s the sockets driver, we talked about this. You need a driver for handles and all that. And he said, “Oh, that’s right, but why did you call it AFD?” I said, “Well, Dave, you named it, remember? Another Freaking Driver.”  
And he kind of laughed and he said, “Well, that’s cute, but you actually need a real name for this thing.” And so I thought about it and I came back and I said, “Dave, I’ve got it.” Remember what the driver does? It provides additional functionality we need for sockets. So we’re going to call it the Ancillary Function Driver.  And he laughed and said, “That’s good, you can go with that.” So to this day, on every single version of Windows, there’s a file called AFD.sys that is the driver for the winsock functionality. Check it out in Windows System 32 drivers, every Windows machine has that file, and now you know how it was named.   
So I’m going to talk to you today about three main areas where we’re focused on listening to you as developers and helping you. First, we know that you need to reach your customers across multiple devices — PCs, phones and tablets. Windows will help you do that. 
Second, we know that you’ve made huge investments in your apps and in your code, and you need to carry those investments forward. Windows will help you do that. 
And third, we know that you need to deliver apps and services across multiple platforms. Yes, Windows will help you do that too. 
Let’s start with how we’re helping you reach your customers across different devices. 
People work and they play across all kinds of computing devices. In a given day, I’ll use two or three different laptops. I have a desktop in my office at work. I’m on my phone all the time. I use a tablet for games at home. 
My family does the same thing. My wife, she has a laptop. My kids, they have tablets. My older son, he has a phone. All of us want the same app experiences across all or our devices. I’m sure it’s the same with you and with your families. 
Yet today, there’s no easy way to create apps that work across all form factors. Well, it’s my pleasure to introduce Universal Windows Apps.  
With the Windows Phone 8.1 release, we’ve brought the new Windows runtime to phones. Now you can use common code to produce apps across phones, PCs and tablets. 
Google and Apple, they have a different approach. They want you to create one app for phones and tablets, and a different app for laptops and desktops. We don’t see it that way. We’re excited to be the first in the industry to make it easy to build apps that reach customers across all the devices where they spend their computing minutes. 
To enable Universal Windows Apps, we’ve streamlined every phase of the development cycle. 
With Windows, it’s simpler to design, to architect, to build, to debug and to deploy your app. Let’s talk about each of these in more detail, starting with the user interface. 
When we looked at how to streamline the process of designing your apps, we found that some of you want to create one app that runs across all form factors. You want to adapt that user interface automatically. For example, here’s Paint for Kids, a popular Windows app that will be coming to Windows Phone with the 8.1 release as a Universal Windows App. 
By using a grid you control that adapts automatically to screen sizes, by using pointer APIs that automatically take input from mouse, touch, ink — the developer is able to create an overall user interface and a single application that works great across form factors. 
Next, we found that others of you want to tailor your experience to the form factor. You want to have a really optimized app for a phone and a really optimized app for the PC. 
For example, here you see Epicurious, a popular cooking app on Windows that will be coming to phone also as a Universal Windows App. 
This developer chose to create different views that are highly optimized for each form factor, yet even so, the bulk of the code was the same across all the devices. 
Now, let’s talk about the code, the app architecture, the programming languages, the APIs, the stuff that matters most to you as developers. 
Universal Windows Apps are based on the Windows runtime on phone just like on PCs and tablets. This means that you have a common, familiar way to build and architect your apps. For example, how you handle things like suspend and resume, the security context and infrastructure, it’s the same across all the devices. 
This also means that you can use the programming language that you know well, the ones that you love, the ones most effective to your task for your Universal Windows Apps. If you love the power and control of C and C++, you can use it. If you love the productivity that C#, .NET, VB.NET enable, you can use those too. Or if you want the breadth of HTML, JavaScript, and the Web, yes, you can use those for Universal Windows Apps.  Yeah, go ahead. Use the language you love. 
This also means you have a common extensive API set for everything from handling low-level data types to higher-level concepts like the file system APIs, notification, the users, and more. 
Of course the best way to develop apps has always been Visual Studio. And now Visual Studio is streamlining development of Universal Windows Apps. VS makes it easy to share code across phone and PC apps, and it gives you the tools to debug and optimize them. 
So I’d like to ask Kevin Gallo to come up and show you the vision we have for VS and Universal Windows Apps. Kevin? 
Thanks, Dave. So what I’m going to show you is an update to Visual Studio 2013 that allows you to build these universal apps. 
So let me launch Visual Studio here. And first I want to show you that if you are starting from scratch and you want to see the templates, it’s very easy. We have edit a new note here under store apps for universal apps, and some simple templates to get you going from scratch. 
But like you, you know, typically, we’re not starting from scratch with an app. I have an app either on Windows or Windows Phone that I now want to take to the other platform and device form factor. 
So I’m going to start with a Windows app. You could have started with a Windows Phone app. And then I’m going to make sure I add a device target for the other. 
So I’m going to go to one that I’ve already been working on here, which is a sports league fantasy app. You can see here I have it for Windows 8.1. And so I’m going to launch this, and just show you what the app looks like on Windows. 
So as you can see here, I have a very simple hub control kind of as my main page here. And then my first little panel over here gives you some news. This will be like a table here where the people are and the points, as well as the teams, their rosters, and a schedule. 
So let me go back to VS. And what I’m going to do is basically add the ability to have a Windows Phone 8.1 target. 
So it’s very simple. I will just simply right click on the project here. And I say add Windows Phone 8.1. And so it’s going to tell me here in this dialog what it’s going to do. But I’ll just show you that. 
So it’s going to create two nodes, one for the feature that is very specific, or code, assets that are specific to Windows Phone 8.1, as well as this new shared node. And this is really the significant addition here is you can now very easily mark what code and assets you want shared. 
Since I built this application using the Windows runtime, I can share my entire app. So I’m going to drag this down here and move it all into the shared node. 
So what’s this doing? It’s taking everything that was in my Windows 8.1 project, this includes my code, my localization files, my images, as well as my XAML, and moving it into the shared project because now it’s going to be shared. And I want to say, this is all of my code, including all of my XAML. 
And the next thing I’ll do is, just like you, I have probably some third-party libraries that I’ve used here, and I’ve decided to use JSON.NET. So I need to tell it that I want to use that. 
By default, we don’t assume you’re going to share. We’re going to make it so you select what you want shared, and move into the shared node. And so here I’m going to say I also want to share this third-party library. And so this reference is also here now in my Windows Phone project. 
So as you can see, I’ve moved the entire app here, I have all my views. Again, by default, we don’t actually assume that your start page will be the same. But since I use the hub control and the hub control is a universal control, it can automatically lay out both for your phone and for your PC. So I don’t need this. So I’m going to delete these and say that I just want to use the default hub control that I had. 
And let’s just rebuild it, make sure I didn’t screw anything up here, some typical warnings, and I’ll just ignore those, like most of you probably do as well. And we’ll kind of see if it runs, and then we’ll go back and figure out if they matter.  Yeah, we all know we do it. Just admit it.  Own up to it. 
So we’ve made it very easy here to change the startup project. It was a little bit hard to do before, now it’s very easy. I do this drop down. I say I want to use Windows Phone Emulator here, and this will just launch my app. And let’s see what it looks like. 
Again, this was a complete copy and share of all of my code. So as you can see here, the hub actually looks pretty good, I can pan around.  
Now, if I look at the first page here, the news view, it doesn’t look that good. But the rest of it, really good. Looks really good. You know, it’s just a standard hub. This one kind of spins around here like our default UX on phone. So it’s a very, very nice app right out of the gate. 
But you know what? I care about the quality of my app, and I want to tune this better. So not only can you by default get a great experience with all of the same code, you can go tune the UX to be better on the device and add some device-specific features. 
So like I said here, these are my views. So I’m going to kind of choose three views that I’m going to tune specifically for the phone. The cover story, leader board and points here. 
So how do I do that? First thing I do here is I drag my user controls back up here. So I’d shared it before and moved it down, I’m going to put it back and say, you know what, these three views are only going to be for my Windows Phone 8.1 project. My Windows project. 
And here I’ve built a set of those views beforehand. And I’ll just drop these into my Windows Phone-specific node. So you can see here, I have different user controls for these three views, but everything else is shared. 
So now let’s see this running. So now you can see what I did on here is I’ve just simplified the main page and I have a little icon down here that shows the newsfeed rather than having it there, and I’ve rearranged the layout. 
I also tuned this a little bit here in my UX. You know, rather than having it big, I said let’s take advantage of a little bit of the density of the phone in this portrait view. 
So then I also added one other view. And this is my points table. And so I can very easily here add that extra view. Well, it’s not working very well, wow. Dave, have you been messing with my code? Have you messed up my app? As usual, I have to go fix the bugs that Dave introduces.  
So I will go back and, luckily, we’ve made some enhancements to our diagnostics center to help debug these types of issues. 
So let me go there and say, you know, as you can see, there are a few more items here. First is we added a memory usage diagnostics tool, but I don’t think that glitch was really due to memory. I think that probably is due to CPU and maybe something wrong with my XAML. 
And so I can run these now in parallel. Beforehand, you’d have to run them separately, but now you can run them in parallel and you can diagnose problems that maybe, you know, are a mix between the two and there’s some sort of interaction between your CPU and XAML. 
But rather than run this here, which takes a little bit of time to run the diagnostics, I already have a log here that I’ll open up and show you. 
So here we have our app startup and then, oh, wow, look, this looks like this is the problem right here. In my UI utilization, the frame rate drops through the floor, my CPU pegs, so let’s go look here and see what this might tell us. 
Well, wow. You know, really there’s nothing in my XAML that is telling me it’s wrong, but wow, the CPU usage is high. So someone must have put something into the code here that just drove the CPU high. That caused that kind of glitch. So I can easily go diagnose, figure out where the problem was, and go fix that. 
Now, once I’ve fixed that, I can then take this app and I can submit it to the Windows Phone Store. So I very easily was able to take that application and convert it to a universal app, do some tuning, and then submit it to the store. 
One of the features that we’ve added here to make it easier to kind of look at your UI and manage it is what we call a context switcher. 
So I’m going to load the designer here because clicking on this XAML here that’s in our shared project. As you can see, here’s my XAML and here’s a view for the phone. But I can very easily, using this drop-down, switch and look at it and what it looks like on Windows or tablet form factor. That’s a great feature, very easy to go do.  And this is how you design universal controls, by building the multiple layouts for each of the different layouts that you want, and I could have tuned this right here. 
So with that, I want to summarize that we’ve added two key features here with Visual Studio. There’s a whole host of them, but the two that I showed, one, you can build universal apps and you can easily share all of your code, or you can do some tuning to make the UX pop on the different form factors, as well as a bunch of different diagnostic tools to really help you make great apps, submit them to the store, and have high quality. 
With that, I’ll hand it back to Dave, thanks.  
 Great job, Kevin, and sorry for messing up your code. 
So that was a great overview of how Visual Studio makes it so easy to create Universal Windows Apps. 
The last area I want to talk about is how we’ve streamlined the store experience around Universal Windows Apps. The Windows Server now features shared app identities. This is a concept where you can give your customers a common app experience across phones and PCs. 
For example, your customers can buy the apps one time and it works on both phone and PC. They don’t need to buy a different app for the phone and PC.  
Likewise, your customers can now make durable, in-app purchases. If you’re writing a game, you can buy it on the phone, use it on the PC. 
With shared app identities, you also get to share cloud storage and notification channel. And there’s a universal badge icon which makes it clear to customers that the application experience is the same across all the devices. 
Shared app identities let you run your business the way you want to. If you want a common app experience, the same purchase experience across phone and PC, you can do that. 
If for some reason you want a different purchase experience, you’re also enabled to do that with shared app identities. And there’s a host of other improvements that we’ve made in the ingestion and store process. 
For example, we’ve made submitting your apps to the phone store more than 50 times faster.  We got a little feedback that we could do better there. 
So now I’ve told you about how we’re enabling Universal Windows Apps and tuning the entire development cycle to help you build them. 
But I want to show you the real power of the platform. What’s the most powerful kind of app that we have built on the platform? What better example than opening up Cortana herself? Hey, Cortana? Can you open yourself up in Visual Studio so we can take a look? 
 I’m sorry, Dave, I’m afraid I can’t do that. What about Microsoft Office?  
 Nice dodge, Cortana. 
Great. With that I’d like to invite Kirk Koenigsbauer, VP of the Microsoft Office team, to show you what we’re doing with Office and Universal Windows Apps.  
 Thanks. Good morning, everybody. Sorry, I’m not Cortana. But I am from the Office team. 
So what I want to do is giving you a look at some of the work we’re doing to build touch-first versions of Office for this modern Windows platform that, as Dave talked about, will scale from the smallest form factors, from phones, to tablets, to PCs up to the largest large-screen devices. 
From a development perspective, the Windows runtime for us has proven to be a really great platform to build highly responsive, deep apps. So I want to give you a sense of what that looks like. 
I’m going to show you PowerPoint. I’ll start there. This is a preview of our work in progress. We’ve still got some work to do before we ship these. But, hopefully, it’ll give you a good sense of the direction we’re taking and the direction of the power of the Windows modern platform. 
So, again, just a preview. This is early user experience code, but one of the things we wanted to do is to bring forward the experiences from Office on Win32 to the modern platform itself. What you’re looking at here is the early version of the backstage. The backstage is where you get all of your templates, you can navigate through those, of course your most recently used files. It roams with you from device to device to device. So we’re connecting to the service experience of Office 365 with the native client experiences here. 
I’m going to go ahead and open up a file. Just go to the file picker. Pop open a document for us to look at, and we’ll work through this one here. 
Now, as we built these new applications, we wanted to make sure that as customers move from Win32 to the modern version on Windows, that they would have an unmistakably Office experience. And a key part of that, of course, is the iconic ribbon for how commanding works and how people navigate through the applications. 
So here you can see the ribbon at the top, and I can navigate through just using my finger, a great touch-first experience through all the commanding, really optimized and in the same hierarchical order, though, that people would expect on Win32. So there’s no learning curve as they come to these new applications. 
The next thing that’s really important for every single Office customer is that every single one of their documents opens flawlessly on any version of Office. And so you’ll see that. We’ve taken the richness of the open XML file format, fully exposed here on these modern versions of Office. 
And you can see as I go through there are things like smart art and text and graphics layered on top of each other. We’ve got, of course, pictures. We’ve got shapes wired up, tables and so forth. So you can see the full file fidelity of the Office experience is here. 
The other thing that you’ll notice, and I’ll just tap through really quickly, is this is blazingly fast. And this is fast because we’ve built this application from the ground up on DirectX and we get really high-fidelity interop between the XAML layer and the custom DirectX code that we’ve built. And that’s what gives you this really snappy, blazingly fast experience. 
Let’s go ahead and look at some of the editing surface that we’ve done, too. I’m going to just do some really simple things here showing you some of the touch-first experiences. 
We’ve made the touch points on the ribbon really big and easy so you can just use your fingers, even big, fat fingers like I have, to go through. And I can just bold, italicize, underline. 
I can bring up galleries. You’ll find that in these new, modern versions of Office that there are galleries for things like transition effects, charts, titles, colors, themes as you see them here. And so just using my finger, I can go ahead and pick the color scheme that I want to use. 
I’ll go down a little bit. Let’s say I’ve got to finish up this very last slide that’s in this deck. And I can go ahead and maybe insert — you can see shapes, smart art, charts, pictures, tables. I’ll just drop a picture in here really quickly. And I can move it around. 
Again, you can see that great performance here. I’ll get it right where I want just using my finger. I can drag it here. 
Let’s say I goof something up. Let’s say in the process of rotating it around or adjusting it, it’s not quite the way I want it to be. I can use the undo stack. We have multiple levels of undo. In fact, unlimited undo, unlimited redo. And a core reason for that is that we’re automatically saving all of the Office documents in this modern version of Office to the cloud, directly to OneDrive. And so that’s a great thing for customers, it’s a great thing for things like collaboration, it’s a great thing to have unlimited version history in these apps.  You can applaud, it’s totally cool to do that. 
Let’s go ahead and take a look at presentation mode. That is, of course, what people want to do when they work on their presentations. 
And you can see, I can just navigate through here using my finger. I can go through, swiping. You can see all the transition effects, the beautiful graphics, animations. 
We’ve begun to wire up some of the gesturing capabilities. So, for example, I can pinch and zoom, and I can jump to any slide in the presentation no matter where I am. I’ll just go to this table you see here. That’s a really nice feature for presenters. 
I can swipe down from the top. We’ve also worked with the Windows team to enable inking in the application. So I can pick a pen. This is preliminary UI here. I can use either a stylus for precision — this time, I’m just going to use my finger, and I can go ahead and circle things, highlight things. You get the idea. 
Here I can drop down again. Pick a different pen if I want, exit out of the drawing mode, go back, pinch and zoom again, drop back to a particular slide I’ve got in the presentation. Really simple, collaboration on the go using this touch-first experience with Office. 
Now, as Dave talked about, one of the most important things we’re doing with these modern versions of Office is taking advantage of the Windows runtime to deliver these universal applications. 
So what I’d like to do is ask the folks to put the phone experience up. And I want to show you this same application that I was just working on on the tablet. Same binary, same executable also works on the phone. So hopefully you guys can see that here. 
I’ll go ahead and swipe. This is modern version of Office PowerPoint running on this Nokia phone. And I can swipe on the tablet, I can swipe here, back to the tablet. Again, you get this really consistent experience, full file fidelity across these two apps. So hopefully a really good example of the notion of universal Windows. I’ve got experiences for the phone, the tablet, PCs, large-screen devices — all single experience. 
Thank you very much. Dave, back to you.  
 Kirk, that was awesome. I think one of the best parts of that demo is how it shows that Microsoft is bringing our most sophisticated, our richest, our most important applications to the Windows runtime as Universal Windows Apps. So we think this can handle all scale of applications. 
OK, the second theme I wanted to talk with you about today is how we’re adding innovations that support the investments that you’ve made in your code and your apps. 
Based on your feedback, we’ve added hundreds of new features for Windows Phone 8.1. For example, new background triggers enable you to create apps that are always aware and can engage your customers in response to things like push notifications or geo fences. 
Support for Bluetooth LE opens up new kinds of device scenarios like fitness, wearables, healthcare, home entertainment. We have new video-editing APIs that open up all sorts of new creativity and media scenarios for you and for your customers. And there are many, many more. 
As we build these innovations, we’re working hard to have a technology continuum to give you a bridge from the code investments you have today to this feature. 
Let me talk about what that means for those of you with existing Windows Phone apps first. 
If you have a Silverlight Phone 8 app, it will, of course, continue to run on Windows Phone 8.1. 
Next, if you want to take advantage of the new features that we’re adding to the platform, like the ones I just showed, you can easily update your app to be a Silverlight Phone 8.1 app. And third, if you not only want to take advantage of new functionality but also have your application run easily across devices as a Universal Windows App, you can migrate your app to a Universal Windows App. 
We’re providing this technology continuum that lets you move forward and adopt the innovations at a pace that makes sense for you and your business. 
No matter which of these approaches you choose, I want to let you know that we’re committed to making sure your apps continue to run on future versions of Windows and Windows Phone. 
Let me just show you one great example of how this works in practice. One of the platform innovations in Windows Phone 8.1 is bringing together voice commanding with the power of Cortana. You can now get an incredibly simple, yet amazingly flexible, system that enables whole new ways for customers to interact with your apps. 
Voice command in Windows Phone 8.0 enable customers to invoke your app by its name, for example, Flixster. And they allowed you to define a simple grammar, pre-existing phrases so that you can invoke specific commands like “Flixster, find moves near me.” 
Well on Windows Phone 8.1, thanks to the power of Cortana, you no longer have to define grammars or long phrase lists. You can give Cortana’s speech recognition platform some hints, and she’ll do the hard work building and optimizing the grammars for you. 
Everything Cortana knows about from everything in the dictionary, all the words in movies, musicians, all are now at your disposal. It’s like a natural command line for the future. 
Let me show you one specific example. This demo is always fun, doing speech recognition demos in front of thousands of people on a massive PA system is often exciting. 
This is a Twitter application where they’ve taken the advances that I just described to you on the Windows Phone platform and used that natural language processing to help me do a tweet. 
Twitter, new tweet. Hello from Windows Phone 8.1, hashtag Cortana, hashtag awesome. 
 New tweet. 
 Well, we were close.   I think we have a little more work to do on tuning the speech recognition engine for presentations in front of 5,000 people. 
So I know that many of you in this audience have existing enterprise apps you’ve written using Win32 or .NET for the desktop. Well, we intend to provide you a great technology continuum for these apps and this code as well. 
I’d like to show you just one of the things that we’re doing in the Windows 8.1 update to help you reuse more of your existing code. 
Let me invite Harry Peirson on stage to show it off.  
 Thanks, David. As you might imagine, we spend a lot of time talking to enterprises. And one thing we hear from them very consistently is this pressure they’re under to mobilize their workforce, to unchain their information workers from their desks and get them out to where the action is. Windows tablets are a great way to do that. 
However, it turns out the typical enterprise has a significant investment in custom applications that they use to run their business. I know not everybody in this room does enterprise app development, but I’m sure you would all recognize a sort of canonical data access line-of-business application. 
This is the order processing application for the Northwind Traders Company. Yes, I said Northwind. Older members of the Microsoft community will probably recognize that name. I figured that since we’re talking about leveraging existing code, I should leverage an existing sample database.  
Now, the great thing about Windows tablets is that they run Windows. I can take this application — this is a C# Windows form, ADO, old school, data reader application sitting on top of SQL Compact. It’s sitting on top of SQL Compact because this is an application that the sales people use. 
They go out and take orders from customers, and they don’t really know what the network is going to look like when they get there, so they better bring all the data they’re going to need with them. 
I can take this application and drop it on an x86-compatible tablet like Surface Pro and it will work just fine. But it won’t be a really good user experience, right? This is clearly an application that’s been designed for keyboard and mouse, not for touch. So users are going to be much more frustrated than they are productive. 
What Northwind really wants is a touch-first Windows runtime version of this application. But they also can’t afford to just throw all of this code away, this code works. It’s already been written, it’s already been debugged, it’s already been tested, it’s already been running in production for years. 
What they want is to be able to take the parts of this application that already work and combine it with a new user interface that’s designed for touch-first tablet computing. And with Windows 8.1 update, the new brokered components feature of Windows runtime, they can do just that. 
Let’s see how it works. So this is my application running in Visual Studio. I wasn’t kidding when I said this is old-school ADO.NET code. Right? SQL CE connection, read next, blah, blah, blah. 
What we’ve done here is that we have the form application — sorry. And if you look in the references section, you’ll notice that we have the Northwind data access layer as a separate component. And if we look at the Northwind data access component, this is where we see this existing code for communicating with the database, executing queries, doing that kind of thing. 
Now, what I really want is to have a modern version of this. So what we have now is a new version of this data access layer. Now, I haven’t taken that code and moved it over, I’m actually referencing that same library directly like a normal reference.
This Windows runtime component is called brokered because it runs in a separate app broker process outside of the typical app container, which means it has access to the full power of Windows and .NET. 
Now, as you might imagine, this is a feature that’s specifically designed for enterprise computing, and is only allowed for side-loaded applications, but that’s exactly the scenario we’re looking at here.
So I have this application, and I have a component here called database. And if we look at it, you’ll see that it’s basically just calling the old database code. In fact, what’s really interesting is that this is a — I said it was old school, right? This is a synchronous call. If we want our application to be fast and fluid, we know we don’t want to be doing that. So what I’m actually doing is I’m running that code on a background thread and automatically surfacing it as a Windows runtime asynchronous operation. So that way when I execute this query against the database, it doesn’t actually block my UI thread and I continue to have a great experience.
Now I can use that component. Here’s my Windows runtime application. There you can see the Northwind RT database component, and let’s see what it looks like.
Now, this is a much nicer version of the application. You’ll notice that I have a touchscreen here, so I’m able to touch on it. All I had to do was to basically rebuild the UI and leverage the existing code that I had after I wrapped it in the Windows runtime component.
And now I’m ready to go out and run this application on a Surface Pro or any other kind of x86 tablet. 
Thanks, Dave.
 Great job, Harry. Thanks very much.
So again we care a ton about helping you support your investments and bring them forward to the future. The stuff Harry showed is a great example of the kinds of things we’re doing to help you bring your investments forward.
So to get to the third major theme of this talk, I want to talk about how Windows is enabling cross-platform apps.
This might come as a surprise to some, but we’re working hard to make cross-platform work better and be more capable for everyone, because we realize it is a critical need in today’s world. We know that lots of you want to have your apps work across many platforms, and we want to help you with that. 
Not only do we want to participate but we also want to contribute to that world to make it easier for all of you, our customers.
Developers building games and apps today rely upon cross-platform frameworks, libraries, tools and services from a vast ecosystem. I want to thank the many partners delivering these building blocks for your universal Windows apps. On this slide you can see just some of them. Many of these, from game engines to ad service to Web frameworks to tools, are designed to help you share your code across platforms.
As one example, in less than nine months developers using Unity published more than 3,000 apps across the Windows and Windows Phone store.
More and more partners are bringing their libraries, tools and services to Windows every day, and we’re working hard with these partners and the open source communities, helping them to support the Windows platforms.
Of course, one of the most important cross-platform technologies is HTML in the Web. Windows Phone 8.1 brings the powerful, hardware accelerated IE11 down to phones. This means that you can have access to all of the latest and most important ACML features across all Windows devices. For example, this means you get WebGL, a great implementation that allows hardware-accelerated 3-D graphics.
There’s cutting-edge video playback. For example, we now support inline video playback on the phone. We support the media source extensions to allow adaptive streaming, adaptive bitrate streaming, without requiring any plug-ins for video and other media scenarios. It’s a leading-edge standard we’re embracing on the phone and on the PC.
And we have great developer tooling like full remote inspection with Visual Studio, JavaScript debut to either an emulator or a tethered device. These are huge for your productivity as a developer.
Not only these but so many more. The ones in this slide in bold are brand new for Windows Phone 8.1.
Clearly, HTML is going to continue to be a critically important way to develop experiences with reach across platforms, not just for PC but also for mobile.
One of the things I’m personally passionate about is interoperability. We are committed to providing a high-performance, interoperable HTML engine with the key features that make cross-platform development not only easier but also more capable for everyone. WebGL is just one example of that. In fact, let me demo it for you.
Here we have a take on the classic Web-based fish aquarium demo. This is based on WebGL. We call it FishGL. It’s a 3-D graphics benchmark.
The concept here is we blur the lines between native and Web experiences even more. We can pan around the scene that we have here, incredible performance, still running at 60 frames per second.
We thought it would be cool to switch views to see what the perspective is like from the fish’s point of view.
And so inside the aquarium you can see how the lines outside, the things outside the aquarium are actually wavy a little bit. This requires an incredible amount of processing horsepower to deliver.
So that’s the demonstration of what WebGL can do for Web applications exploiting amazing hardware-accelerated 3-D performance and what you can do with the Web for cross-platform apps. 
Next let me show you the inline video playback support we just showed.
Here’s a Windows Phone 8.1 device. We have a link to a search on the YouTube website, a popular video website that I’m sure most of you are aware of.
We’ll pick a video and what will happen is when I start playing the video, it’s going to play inline. I can scroll around. I have seamlessly integrated controls, integrated right on top of the video. That’s a terrific implementation of video playback in the Windows Web platform.  Thank you.
So we know that making a great user experience for an app requires more than just HTML. A few years ago, we introduced a Windows library for JavaScript or WinJS to help developers build great user interfaces on top of HTML.
What is WinJS? It’s really just a JavaScript library, a set of JS, CSS and HTML files. It gives you the infrastructure for building high-quality, modern user interfaces, including things like virtualized lists, app bars and much, much more.
We’ve used it to make a lot of beautiful apps ourselves, and developers like you are using it to make many more apps. It works on its own and it works alongside other JavaScript libraries.
Well, I’m pleased to announce that today we are taking our first steps to bring WinJS cross-platform, so you can use it to make high-quality, modern websites and apps. That’s right.  
Because interoperability is so important, because you need your Web Apps and websites to run across platforms, WinJS will really help you do that, and it’s the basis of the HTML Web that we all know and love.
In fact, starting today, Microsoft OpenTech will be making WinJS available as an Open Source project under the Apache 2.0 license. 
This is just the start of the project. You can find the source code on GitHub. We’d encourage you to check it out, see our road map of investments ahead, send us feedback and, yes, please, even make contributions to WinJS. 
So I showed you today three things. We know you need to reach your customers across phones, tablets and PCs today. We know you’ve made huge investments in your existing apps, and that you need bridges to tomorrow’s innovations. We know you need to deliver apps and services not only on our platform but across device platforms. Windows will help you do all of these things. 
Before I welcome Terry back up, I want to share with you a few announcements so you can start taking advantage of all the things I talked about. 
The Windows 8.1 update is available on MSDN today for you as attendees of this conference and MSDN subscribers. You can put the Windows 8.1 update that Joe showed off, all the great new functionality there, on your PCs, and get going with it before it rolls our globally next week.
Visual Studio 2013 update 2 RC is available today. It provides everything you need to get started with developing apps for Windows and Windows Phone that we talked about in this presentation.
And third, as a developer you will be one of the first ones to get access to Windows Phone 8.1 on your devices. If you’re a registered Windows or Windows App Studio developer, starting this month you’ll be able to download and install Windows Phone 8.1 on your existing Windows Phone 8 devices.
Thank you very much. 
 Thanks, Scott.
Morning, everybody.  A good hand for Scott. He did a good job this morning, him and his team.
My name’s Steve Guggenheimer. Most people call me Guggs. Our team is responsible for working with all of you, running this event, managing the 300,000 folks watching through Channel 9, and hopefully doing a great job of working as a great partner with all of you and all the developers around the world. So if you’ve got feedback on things you like, send them my way. If you’ve got feedback on things you don’t like, I’m sure I’ll get that, too.
Two things as we head into this section and they roll all these out. We’ve got more demos and machines in the short period of time we’re going to use now than all the other keynotes combined. So once we get into the demos, we’re going to go fast. And two, everything we do is through the partner lens. So everything we’ll show is based on work we’ve been doing with partners over the year and things they have allowed us to bring onstage to work with.
So with that, I want to kick off. Scott this morning talked a little bit about developer conversations. And when we were here last year, myself and John, we started the conversation really around two things. We wanted to make sure we were having a good conversation with folks we had never worked with before, and really sort of mobile-first, cloud-first developers who might not have ever used our technology, we wanted to make sure we were showing off and highlighting some of the things that we were working on that might not have been in the other keynotes, so Bing entities, for example, or Office or some of the other areas.
We also wanted to make sure we did a great job talking to developers that have worked with us for a long time, in particular .NET developers, to show how we were moving forward in that area as well, and make sure nobody thought we were leaving work behind or not doing a good job of working in that area as well.
This year, sort of wanted to get a little more finesse into the conversation. Oftentimes, people say, you know, want to have the one dialogue that everybody can have. It just doesn’t work that way, right? Most of the time when we start the conversation, first part, what type of applications are you working on, line-of-business application, games, social, data, et cetera, and then what toolchain, Web developer, .NET C#, XAML, Java, et cetera, or native developer, C++?
So you have to start with the dialogue of the type of app and the toolchain, because these things just don’t crisscross over easily, you’ve got to have the right starting point.
The second piece, then, is what things do people generally talk about. Once you talk about apps and toolchain, there’s really three areas we get consistent feedback on. The first one is help me support existing investments. With all of the work going on today and all the different devices, it’s noisy out there, let me reuse as much of the code, the skills, et cetera, whatever, that I can. I don’t want to have to start from scratch over and over. This is regardless of anything else.
Two, in a cloud- and mobile-first development environment, Microsoft, what can you do to help me? We’re moving fast. Unless you can connect into what I’m working on, honestly I don’t have time.
And then three, look, it’s a cross-platform, cross-device world, how do you play in that world? We want to reach as many sockets as possible, as many users, machines, back-end services, and how do you participate?
Those three conversations, regardless of app type or toolchain, are ones that we have over and over again. And so that’s the framework we’ll use for the rest of the demos this morning and the rest of the discussion.
Now, two things heading into that. One is across what we saw yesterday with Terry and then Scott this morning. We’ve taken a lot of feedback, and one of the areas we’ve been working on hard for a long time is making sure at least when you work with us we do as good a job as possible about making it easy to work across our technologies.
So the notion of a common core, and you saw some of this coming forward yesterday with what Kevin showed and the universal projects, being able to target embedded devices, phone, PC, tablets, and making that much easier to do, with Scott being on-prem and in the cloud and being able to go back and forth, we’ve worked on this notion of a common core which actually goes back to the NT kernel, which we started a long time ago with XP and NT, client-server. Now it extends across all of the different platforms we run. And so things like identity, security, management, development, on our platforms hopefully they’re as easy as possible and it crosses over.
Now, the corollary to that is oftentimes people think when you work with Microsoft it’s all or none. And one of the things you’ll see throughout the sessions we do this morning, that’s just not the case. There’s lots of folks that work with us on one axis or another and don’t use all of the tools we have and don’t use all the services or all the devices. And you know what, we love that. We want to work with you any way that we can to do a great job, and then over time we’ll figure out other areas that might add value.
So with that, I’m going to invite my colleague out on stage, Mr. John Shewchuk. Morning, John. How are you?
 Good morning, Steve.
 So my nickname is Guggs, his is Shew. Last year, I said it was a really bad cop movie. This year would be part two of a bad cop movie. So with that comes lots of messiness, maybe some explosions, hopefully no blood. So we’ll see how this one goes today, but let’s see what we can get cranked through in under an hour, and go across those three particular areas.
So we’re going to start with supporting existing technology investments. This is a conversation in particular with folks we’ve partnered with for either a short time or a long time, we want to make sure we do a great job on. 
So let’s start with .NET applications, right, desktop WPF applications. Yesterday, Terry did a good job on this but I want to make sure folks know we don’t just support it, we’re continuing to invest in this area. There’s work going on with the WinRT API set to make sure we’re doing a great job for .NET. 
This is a set of applications for Morgan Stanley. They literally run hundreds of WPF apps, tens of thousands of users. These are mission-critical. You’re compositing data and media, you’re doing real time and you’re using multi-monitors. If you’re going to build an app like this, you’re still going to do it in WPF. It’s going to be a great experience, and that’s where we start.
And John, you know, when we work with these developers, what are some of the other questions we get as we start here?
 Well, one of the things that we know about the great kinds of apps people produce with things like WPF is that they do all kinds of integration to Office capabilities and so on. 
But often the question we get the most is, how can I bring these apps forward, how can I take advantage of new capabilities that are coming in Windows, new capabilities coming in the cloud?
I actually have an interesting app over here. This is the kind of app you’d typically see in a professional office, lawyers, doctors. In this case we’ve got dentists. And it kind of shows many of the different parts that people bring in here: images, integration with the existing systems. This one happens to be based on local data, maybe local AD, maybe local SQL.
And what I wanted to do was just kind of talk about one of the transformations that’s underway for many of these WPF apps.
So if I close this, actually what I’m looking at here is Office 365, and you’ll notice that dentist has a calendar and they’ve got all kinds of different appointments occurring. And wouldn’t it be great if we could take advantage of these things and if we could make it very easy to move these kinds of advanced apps forward? I just want to show you how incredibly easy that is.
Well, to kind of start these things, at the core of much of the work that we do in the cloud, Active Directory, which Scott just talked about, is one of the big enablers here. And we’ve already configured Active Directory to support this particular app, and one of the things I just wanted to drop down here and show is that we’ve given it full access to the user’s calendar. And we’ve also giving it access to various things in Active Directory. And to hook this thing up we really just need this identifier. And let me go here into the code and I’m going to drop that identifier. This is how Active Directory will know that this is the app.
Now, here’s where some of the magic really comes in. What we’ve got is a file up here. I’m just going to go add it to the solution. This is an existing item out there. And this is the Office 365 calendar service. It’s a WPF-friendly version of the information necessary to go hook up, talk to all the REST interfaces. I’ve also used NuGet to configure it so that it does Active Directory login.
So I have one more quick change I’m going to go make, and I’m going to go into the view and instead of talking to the local calendar service, I’m just going to say Office 365 calendar service. We’ve cut that over, and now I’m going to go run this thing.
And here in kind of one quick easy step we’ve transformed this app, which was a kind of local app, it’s now logging in, in the cloud. So I’m going to go log in there. And there we go, we’ve now loaded and done full integration with the cloud, moving this WPF app into this world of devices and services.
 You know, and that’s a good area, John. I think one of the areas we see in line-of-business applications in particular there’s been a lot of usage or connection to Office over time. And now as we move forward from the SharePoint Conference last week, we announced the new set of APIs for the cloud at API.Office.com. And here if you want access to documents, mail, calendar, people, social, et cetera, there’s a new rich set of APIs out there that you could take advantage of, get access to all of Office 365, and you’ll notice it’s for iOS, Android and Windows. So now we’re extending what we can do with Office and Office 365 and bringing it back into the world of the applications that are out there today.
Now, that’s sort of, I’d say, a really cool way to take, I’ll say, a more current WPF app and bring it forward.
Now, sometimes we get questions, we saw a little bit from Kevin yesterday — or not with Kevin, it was in David’s session where they took a really old app and made it run a little bit better on Windows.
You know, working with a partner, Mobilize.net, who’s been working on the ability to update apps for a long time, they have a new product, WebMAP2, and what they’re allowing us to do is show that here for the first time today. And this isn’t about sort of just connecting Office 365, this is taking really old .NET applications and moving them forward.
So John, why don’t we play a little bit with that?
 Yeah, so kind of let’s, Steven, roll back the clock maybe a little bit further. Anybody recognize this? This was —
 That’s a great UI, John. You’re doing good work here.
 — pretty hot technology at one point in time. This is VB6 in action.
And Mobilize was one of our partners that helped us build a pretty cool tool, which enabled you to take that VB app and then transform the code, and here’s that same code now running as a WinForm app in C#. And so this transformation has been out there for a while.
What we’re really excited to announce today is the new shell that Mobilize has created, the Mobilize.net studio, and in here is this WebMAP2 transformation. 
And what I’ve done is I’ve loaded up that transformed VB6 C# project, and here is the various files that are in there. And a cool new feature that they’ve added is this notion of related files. 
So here’s that particular form we were looking at, and notice it’s done this pretty incredible thing. It’s actually analyzed the code, it’s identified the business logic, what’s happening on the UX, and it’s pulled those apart into an MVVM controller. 
And so we can actually see, if we go highlight changes, as a developer, you know, as this thing’s touching your code, you really want to see what happened to it. But it’s now moved it so that the C# code can run on the server and we can actually project that UI now out as HTML5. And that’s a pretty unbelievable transformation. In fact, let’s see that in operation. Here is that same app now running up on Azure. Notice I can go look at the managed customers form.
So let’s think about that. We’ve now taken an app from VB6 through WinForms, now we’re projecting it out into the cloud, running logic up on the server, and then projecting it out on the client. And there’s some really cool things you get to do once you can project this thing out as HTML5.
 Yeah, let me take the final step, let’s take it onto the phone here. So now we’re taking that old VB6 app and taking advantage of the CSS work and the rest of what’s been done. We can now run this not beautifully but well on this phone. So we’ve gone a long, long way from that application to this phone in basically a short amount of time, didn’t take much at all to do this.
 It’s pretty incredible to be able to use CSS and these transformations to create a touch-friendly version of that app with very, very little touch on the part of the developer.
 And so that’s an area where I want to transition over and just say, first, thanks to Tom Button and the team for letting us show this for the first time today, and then there’s a whole set of Visual Studio integrated partners that are out there. 
You know, Scott and his team talked about Visual Studio, they mentioned the work we’re doing with Xamarin when we think about going cross-platform, iSynics is a new partner there, Perfecto Mobile, in this case the work we’re doing with Tom and his team.
So Visual Studio is a great tool, but we also work really well with partners to make sure that toolset can expand and work in as many different areas as are important to you. And so that’s a place we want to continue to invest.
Now, I’d say one last sort of connection point in sort of reusing assets and then we’ll move forward, and that’s all about the embedded space. The embedded space, yesterday, Terry talked a little bit about the Internet of Things. In many ways that’s sort of not about today as the consumer side and all the cool wearables and things people are doing, but there’s a ton of embedded devices that exist today in the retail space if you think of point-of-sale systems. When you go use your ATM there are some good old-fashioned Windows code in most of those things, .NET in particular. Depending on the device that you’re using, there’s likely — if it’s a commercial device, a handheld device, manufacturing device, healthcare — there’s likely embedded software there. And that’s an area we will continue to invest going forward and Terry talked about that.
But we’re also continuing to invest in some of the areas that are probably a little less, I’ll say, sexier out there. So there are many of the devices that have no UI. And in the devices that have no UI there’s something called the .NET Micro Framework. We’re continuing to invest in the .NET Micro Framework. We’re going to bring it forward so we’re updating language support for generics, we’re improving the runtime performance, we’re going to make it modern Visual Studio integration, and we’ve open sourced this as well so other people can work on it. So we’re going to continue to invest in this area and make sure for folks working in the embedded side we do a great job not just on the new things, which we’re about to get to, but also on the existing.
In terms of new things, embedded goes pretty well there as well. So John, so Akai and Numark, this is an example of sort of a very modern — we could do this all day — a very front-end side to the embedded space. These are musical instruments. Skrillex uses these, Dr. Dre, and so Dr. Shew as well takes advantage of these, and this is the other end of the embedded space and another area in terms of working with developers there’s a lot of opportunity. This is not something you might generally think about as a Windows device. Yesterday, Terry had the piano, so keeping with the Windows theme. I want to thank Akai and Numark for letting us sort of give a sneak peek of these today and keeping the music theme going. 
And so embedded is sort of the last piece where I want to talk about sort of bringing assets forward.
Now, let’s switch gears. You know, John, in the mobile- and cloud-apps-first area there’s lots of different things that we do, there’s lots of different types of applications. Where is a good starting point for this discussion?
 Yeah, one of the things about developers as they look into the mobile- and cloud-first world, there’s a lot of options out there. 
And so one of the questions that we often get asked is, well, why focus on the Windows platform? And typically the cases that we’re seeing where developers are coming to us are those that involve the need for a very wide range of capabilities, especially in the enterprise and with things like integration.
A great example of this is actually some work we’ve been doing with Delta Airlines, and they’ve been teaming with Jeppesen Boeing in order to put this together.
Now, Steve, you were involved in this project, so kind of describe what Delta wanted.
 Well, I think this is a good bridge between existing assets and going forward. Delta wanted to take advantage, look, people are using the Jeppesen app in cockpits today. You see it on the iPad. But part of what’s important for them is to not just take advantage of technology in the cockpit but also in the backside of the plane where people are taking orders and they have the cashless flights today, but also in the mechanics area being able to do manuals online, and then just as importantly hooking into all the back-end systems.
So what we did is we worked with Jeppesen, we got the app running pretty easily on the Windows device. Here’s a Surface device. This is my flight from Seattle down to San Jose. We can blow it up a little bit. If we want to, we can add some information. 
And the nice thing for the pilots, look, it’s very performant. They like the performance. We’ve had 700 pilots work with it already, getting great feedback. 
If I need to look at the manual, typically pilots used to carry a big flight bag and they had to carry all the manuals. Here now I can just open the manual if I want for North America, I can open up side by side.
So a pretty simple example of taking advantage of the device and the software and moving into a cloud-first, mobile-first world. But it’s not just this device, it’s the combination of the new devices connecting to the existing system.
And I’ve talked to Richard Anderson, the CEO. He’s very, you know, both pleased with what we’re doing but really looks forward to how to make all these pieces come together and take advantage of how the world’s moving forward.
Now, that’s one direction you can take in terms of sort of cloud devices or cloud and mobile. Let me go to another one. Let me come back to the slides real quick.
Autodesk, many of you might be familiar with AutoCAD, great desktop application. Still have it, it does great, we love it, in particular sort of with high-fidelity inking and some of the other work they do.
But part of how they’ve moved forward is to build a complementary set of applications and services, Pixlr photo editing, 123D 3-D modeling, the Autodesk, AutoCAD 360. And so they not only maintain their existing assets, but they build a complementary set of services. And these are services that I’m happy to announce they’re going to bring these to Windows, they’re going to make sure we do a good job of connecting existing and future, and we see this often. This is work we’ve done, Intuit, for example, having a Mint service to complement their services, Office started here, Adobe. And so this is a way to take existing assets and complement them in a cloud- and mobile-first world.
So those are sort of two line-of-business applications, started in the area. Let’s switch gears now. Let’s go into — I’ll say let’s start with social and let’s pick up from some conversations last year.
Last year, we announced Flipboard was coming to Windows. And since then they’ve done a great job bringing it to Windows 8. And you actually worked on this app with them. Did you want to talk a little bit about this?
 Yeah, so when we sat down with the Flipboard team, they had had many great mobile apps out there, and they had been doing a lot of work to make sure that their Web properties were able to provide a good experience in HTML5.
And so as we looked to bring this and release this last year, one of the key things that we did was we came up with a way to do the hybrid application, leveraging a lot of that content, and yet do a really great experience in terms of the flipping of the app, and so we got that stuff all running.
Then what happened was that the team wanted to take all of the investment that they had done, those projects, and they wanted to evolve it forward and bring it to the phone. And we’re pretty excited to show this.
 Yeah, so this is a technology preview. Eric and Mike were kind of enough to let us show this. App’s not done, this is again just taking a technology and leveraging what we saw yesterday in terms of Kevin Gallo being able to move code across devices. 
Here you see the same Flipboard app, great experience in the UI. You’ll notice we can down shading, shadows, moves really nicely, very performant. 
And the nice thing is, it’s easy now to go across the devices, and in this case with a real partner-based application, technology preview with that application. 
And John, you’ve got another device?
 Yeah, well, let me just say a second about what we did here. In order to get this great experience that they were looking for, our teams partnered and we took that code base forward and we actually started taking advantage of DirectX and C++.
And so I actually had something pretty interesting to show here. This is a Nokia 520. This is actually one of the lowest-end devices. I picked one of these things up in the store the other day for 60 bucks. It’s 512 memory. Check this out, the experience, the flipping on this thing is incredibly fast, it’s super performant, and this is really a great example of developers using the entirety of the toolchain, Web technologies on the server, .NET, C#, DX, C++ in order to really, really, really create an unbelievable experience at even the lowest-end device. 
 So we appreciate the help from the Flipboard team. 
Now let’s switch gears. Last year, we showed for the first time, this just announced, we showed Foursquare coming to the tablet for the first time. They chose to bring it to the Windows tablet first because of the great experience that could be delivered. 
We didn’t spend time last year on the phone app, but they have a great Windows Phone app. Wait for a second, let that pop up on the screen.
And so what we want to do now is take the app that is in existence already and then build on what Kevin and the team showed us yesterday in terms of some of the new APIs coming for Windows, Windows Phone 8.1 in this case — or sorry, Windows Phone 8 in this case — I call it blue, I don’t know what to call it anymore — and bring it forward.
So John, you want to take us on this one?
 Yeah. Well, I may have a little problem. Speaking of all those explosions, I do not — oh, do I have mouse? I don’t have mouse. Let’s see, this might be a little tricky to do without — I don’t even have a keyboard. Oh, there we go. No, that’s not me. Somebody’s got the mouse backstage, so let me just talk through this.
What I’ve got here is a —
 I warned you, to be fair.
 This is remote-control coding, never been done before.
So what we’ve got here —
 Voice-activated coding.
 — I’ve got a Silverlight project, and the way I got to there is I right-mouse-button clicked on this, the previous Windows Phone 8 project that they had, and I did one quick click, which was to do the new retarget to Windows 8.1.
And the cool thing about this is that we took their existing code, and this is the actual Foursquare code, and what’s really cool about this is the second you do that thing, you get this project, and now you get full namespaces. So if I were to type in here, Windows.devices.geolocation — the voice recognition is incredible here.
 Hey, it proves it’s real.
 Yes. What we’re seeing is the ability to bring in all these new capabilities.
Now, Foursquare, one of the things that they really wanted to be able to do was create a more engaging experience. They love the Live Tiles. They saw what we were doing with 8.1 around geo fencing and they thought, wow, the ability to have literally thousands of these geo fences, we could use that to do something pretty cool.
So if you look up here inside these projects, the way a geo fence works is, it’s actually a little extra program that kind of runs alongside, it gets packaged with the main app and it runs in the background and it does the simplest thing. Whenever we move in and out of one of these geo fences, the run operation gets called here, and that run operation does a pretty simple thing. It looks to see what the list of venues are nearby, so what’s the various restaurants, what are the various points of interest.
Now, the way you go create one of these geo fences is incredibly simple. If we go to the part of the code where we create one of these things, that new geo fence, notice all we do is we create a circle, we create the new geo fence, we’ve got 10 seconds in here so that we’re not bouncing around too much, and then we go in and add that thing to our list of geo fences. That’s it. We’ve got geo fences now, literally thousands of them sitting around. 
So actually we have an emulator here. Let’s pull that up. Let’s start up the Foursquare app and just see where kind of we are. 
Now, I won’t talk too much about kind of the existing app. That’s out there. Let’s close it. We’ll go back to the Start screen and now let’s go navigate over here to Union Square, and watch what happens.
A couple seconds go by, it notices we’ve entered Union Square, and watch what happens to the Live Tile. All of a sudden these things start to pop up, it finds the various venues. So it’s a great example of one of our partners who’s really pushing the envelope in terms of those engaging experiences. So we’re really excited to be partnering with them to solve these kinds of problems.
 Yeah, and we’re seeing a lot of interest in this space. We’ve spent some time with Conde Nast and you think about a magazine in food and marketplaces and restaurants, again the notion of using geo fencing and Bluetooth LE very popular with existing apps that are out there.
Let’s switch gears. Let me go to the other end. This is a partner we’ve never shown before, new technology coming. The name of the company is Heapsylon and the app is Sensoria, and I’m going to get started.
What I have is, I have a sock on that has basically pressure sensors, and I have this nice little Bluetooth LE emitter down here that’s running along. I’m going to start the session. Now, they’re going to work on obviously nicer pieces of hardware over time.
Let me make sure this guy is on. Yep.
And so I’ll start walking around. It takes about 10 seconds to load. And there you see as I walk I only have a sock on my left foot. Then you see the information as I’m walking around and it gets the pressure points. And if I’m running, it’s a little more active than what I’m doing now.
And then what you can do is you can connect in, and, for example, I could grab a coach. So if I wanted to have a coach and give me feedback as I’m wearing my headsets, I can also look at running form feedback and get performance information.
For purposes of speed, let’s take a look at performance analysis. What it’s doing now is, it’s looking at basically a, quote, run I did earlier, which in my case is as close to a lumber or we’ll call it a fast walk and we’ll be good with that. But I can run along here and you’ll see the pressure on my foot. And as I start to slow down, we’ll get a little coaching.
  You’re losing your cadence. Speed up now.
 Usually it says move your fat you-know-what along, but you get the idea.  
It’s really, you know, when we talk about the Internet of Things, we’re mixing a lot of pieces here together, Bluetooth LE emitter, socks with fibers in it that read pressure, new applications, and then there’s a bunch of cloud on the back end of this, John.
 Yeah, so the amazing thing about this application, I mean, think about these new kinds of devices, fitness bands, all these threads throughout your clothing. There’s a huge amount of telemetry going on. 
So our partner has gone, they’ve used Azure for all kinds of stuff, Azure blobs, SQL Azure for data, they’re doing authentication, they’re using the Azure Service Bus in order to do all the communication between these things, elastic search for data extraction, Lucene to do the real-time analytics. It kind of goes on and on, Hadoop and various other things.
So really you look at these kinds of apps, it’s a bunch of small devices, but they’re really doing big data in the most powerful way.
 So that’s an interesting bridge into the cloud side of things, and sort of apps on the front end, clouds on the back end.
Now, I want to run a video. It’s interesting, many folks think again about when you work with Microsoft, you know, is it all or nothing? This is a good example of a partner, John Gruber from Daring Fireball, great partner.
Now, they build a phenomenal iOS app, right, for your iPhone. They don’t build any Windows apps. Yet based on some of the services we have, we have a great partnership. So let me go ahead and roll this video.
 Thank you to John and team, great job by them. So we’ll give them a quick hand.  I’ve been told often I should pause and breathe occasionally, but I’m not very good at that.
So that’s a great example of a partner who’s doing nothing on the device side with us but Azure just made sense. And starting at that point in time we were able to connect and line up and it’s been a win-win on both sides.
Now I want to switch gears to a different partner. This is Chris and our friends at Gobbler. And Gobbler is a service for musicians and I’ll say creatives of all types. 
And it’s really interesting, because when you think about layers of abstraction, you know, Scott starts sort of at storage and compute and networking and he works his way up to media and mobile. These guys are a layer above that. They’re trying to solve the need of a particular end-user community using a set of services. And in this case they were already running on Amazon using Ruby on Rails, Ubuntu, MongoDB, deployed with Chef. 
And we worked with them, and I’ll let you, you know, watch the feedback from Chris and team as we run this video from Gobbler.
 So Chris and his team doing a great set of work. I hope you guys caught Danny this morning as the DJ. We want to thank him for doing that for us. That was a real nice addition.
So now that we’re on the cloud side let’s switch into gaming, because it’s a real interesting area.
And we saw a little bit this morning on some of the Xbox games and using the cloud on the back end for assistance. What I want to do now is switch gears and talk a little bit about in this case sort of PC gaming and the notion of using cloud assistance for desktop, PC gaming, whatever term you want to use.
 Yeah, so I’ve got a pretty interesting thing here. This is a new prototype we’re working on. This is coming out of the labs. This is running on a high-end machine. And notice like what I’m about to start doing here. I am going to start blowing this building apart.
Now, the cool thing about this is, this is not scripted. This is full-on deformation of this building.
Now, things are pretty cool here, but I’ve actually rigged this building to blow. And what I mean by that is we’re going to just start destroying the whole building.
And so, oops, don’t move the mouse, John. You’ll notice that the building is starting to come down. And watch that frame rate. The frame rate is dropping. We are doing an incredible number of calculations on the physics, the geometries, the rotation of all these objects as it’s going down, and you’ll see that this really overwhelms this machine.
Now, Steve’s got the same app running over here, but we’re doing something a little bit different. We’re using the cloud and a collection of devices to do cloud computation, and why don’t you start blowing this building up?
 I’m going to start shooting this building up. And here like these are high-end main-gear gaming rigs. These aren’t small machines. And so they’re high-end, but when you get to this level —
 All right, let’s detonate the building.
 All right, I’ll start the detonations.
 And notice this thing is running much, much faster for Steve already. And even after he detonates the building, notice the building is starting to come apart. He can now wander around, like let’s go run around various other parts. Like there’s some great stuff in this environment.
 I like to shoot this one, yeah. This thing is really cool, shoot this thing down. 
 But think about this, imagine trying to —
 I mean, I like to shoot anything, moving or not, but that’s a separate conversation.
 Everything in this entire environment can be blown apart. And what we’re really seeing is the power of the cloud to enable new kinds of experiences that have never been possible. Even if we had multiple high-end machines and these things were talking, they couldn’t do the kind of bandwidth that they’re doing.
So what’s happening, the computation’s going on in the cloud, we’re sending those rotations, the positional information down to the clients where the rendering is getting done.
I think it’s a really great example of the power of the cloud.
 No, a real nice complement. And this is a good connection into PC gaming overall. We’re continuing to —
 That thing is dead, yeah, two frames per second.
 How to kill a big machine.
We’re continuing work on investments for the PC gaming community. You know, we were down here at GDC, what was it, a week and a half ago. We’ve got a great set of partners who are continuing to innovate and build phenomenal PC games. This is the war-gaming guys and they’re doing a great job. There’s a whole set of developers and partners. We just want to say first thank you, they do a great job. Two, we’re continuing to make investments and we’re going to do as good a job as we can to make sure PC gaming as a class of applications we do a great job for. And I think the cloud assist here we’re showing is a piece of that. I would say this is an area where we’re listening and we’re going to do more, and want to be a great partner and continue to move this area forward.
So since we’re in gaming, let’s take one more step forward. I’m going to wander over here and let’s move on. Last year, when we came here, for the first time we showed WebGL running in IE11. And my memory was a Khan Academy demo that Terry picked up the other day.
This is sort of picking up on that. Now here we’ve just got this nice room that we can sort of scroll around in, super performant, looks great. 
What I want to do is what Kevin did show yesterday. Let me bring up my phone here, open it up. This is now taking that same capability, same IE11, and instead of searching for fish I’m going to set up a virtual joystick, set the camera up, and now I can move my head around here if I want with the right trigger or right key, and now I can move around.
So now I have a very cool virtual engine here in IE11 running on the same code and it moves super smoothly, it works great. I think this is pretty cool. But I know you’re standing over there because you want to show me up. So go ahead.
 Yeah, yeah. So look, doing this kind of stuff is pretty amazing, but what’s I think one of the more interesting things happening in the industry today is the just incredible rate of advance in the JavaScript libraries.
We happen to have the Babylon library up here on the screen, and notice that that entire experience that Steve was just playing with was actually created in 12 lines of code. We’ve got the Babylon thing going and creating the canvas. We load the scene, we attach a camera to it, and then we run the render loop, which is pretty amazing that people are able to pull this kind of content together in the app.
But I actually can go take this a little bit further. Notice I’ve got this little button down here called the Go Big button. Now, Steve, you were at GDC last week. What was the big deal there?
 I was at GDC. And so some of the heads-up display, virtual reality headsets, they were killer. The chance to play with these things, it’s just a whole other environment.
So if you want, see what you can do from Oculus on this.
 Yeah, now check this out. Here’s the documentation for Babylon.js. There’s one line of code here, just copy that. I’m going to go drop that into that button and now check this out. Ready? Control-V, I’m not going to run this thing. Ready, Steve?
 Yep, yep.
 All right, it’s going to load up the environment. That’s all good. We saw this before. But now let’s go big. Check this out. All right, so this is Steve using the Oculus Rift in WebGL on a PC, and I think we’re up to 13 lines of code at this point in time.
 Yeah, super cool. In fact, I’m staying here, John. 
 Now, the thing that’s incredible about — 
 You run the rest of the keynote.
 Yeah, don’t trip.
 It’s funny, I feel like I’m off the edge.
 One of the keys to making this experience work is that we’re able to handle this loop at 200 hertz. Any of the other browsers out there today don’t have that kind of cycle time. But it’s also the entirety of the PC ecosystem, the USB, the high-end rendering. All of those things are combining together to let developers create these new kinds of experiences with an incredibly low amount of effort.
So we’re pretty excited about the work that’s gone on in WebGL and our ability to push these things forward.
 Thanks. Nice work, John. That was good stuff. 
OK, so we covered lots of different entry points for sort of mobile-first, cloud-first. We did cloud side, we did app side, we ended on some gaming. Let’s switch gears now to the last area, which is maximizing the number of devices I reach cross-platform, pick the term you want to use, but in this case let’s start within the Windows family and then we’ll spread out in terms of the opportunity to reach other devices.
So the first thing I want to do is I wanted to do this demo, to be quite honest with you, especially the last part when you watch, but apparently the insurance for this particular venue said no. 
So we’ve been working with GoPro, and one of the things they’re very happy about is how easy it is now to start to bring their application, they have a phone app already, across all of the different devices, including Xbox.
So in this case I’m just going to run the video.
 I know we would have gotten good cred for bringing the lion onstage.
 It would have been fun, yeah. That would have been a winner. 
 Next year we’ll have to consider how we do that.
So thanks to the folks at GoPro you saw some in-app merchandizing in there as they think about the app. And the feedback is, look, with the common core this is much, much easier to do.
Let’s pick another one, we’ll do one more here. Let’s go to gaming. This is “Doodle God 2.” So we’re happy to release the next generation of “Doodle God” today, and we have it running here. The first instantiation is the phone. Got it. And so here I can start all over. I can add fire and drag it up here and burn holes. I can put some lakes in, you know, continue to build my environment out from scratch.
Now, phone’s the first part. The second device we have it running on is the Xbox, and there’s my Xbox controller for this. And the same basic principle here if you’ve played “Doodle God” before. What do I want to work on here? Let’s take some fire, let’s place some fire out in the middle. That never works, so let’s go find some sand. Well, John’s going to yell at me there. I’ll burn the grass for right now.
So “Doodle God 2” on the Xbox, and now third, John, you have it running over there on the PC.
 Yeah, as you can see, this is running on the PC. I can also burn grass. Check it out, look at that, burning the grass.
 We like to burn things.
 Yeah.
 We’re supposed to have fire.
 Shooting, burning and lions.
 Yeah, exactly. All right, we’re on a roll.
 Now, what’s really cool about this is JoyBits, when they built this app, they really wanted to maximize the experience. And so this is a group that really goes down to the metal. So they’re C++, DirectX throughout this.
But when you think about the opportunity here, what’s incredible about this particular application, you’re seeing it on the phone, you’re seeing it on Xbox, you’re seeing it on the PC, it’s an identical set of files. Like I have three projects here. Every single file is completely identical.
Now, one of the things that they did want to do, if I go into the Win runtime and I look at the rendering code here, notice that they’ve got a couple of ifdefs in there. This ifdef, let’s see, here’s one, Windows Phone platform. Notice the difference here. On the phone they’re using a fixed set of vertices. On the Xbox and on the PC they’re actually varying that so that they can do a better job with the fidelity of the objects, better textures, that kind of thing. But it really points out the ability to take an investment and spread it across all of these different kinds of devices into these different environments.
But there’s a little bit more here, right? 
 Yeah, you know, this thing clearly if you’re going to do this kind of work, last year we showed with unity sort of running across platform and having sort of Azure on the back end help us, I assume with this one they’ve done the same.
 Yeah, so the incredible thing that they’ve done is JoyBits does this across all their games. They use the cloud, Azure, to go connect together various aspects of the games. So, for example, you can be on one device, pick up on another device. They use it to find other players. So the cloud really empowers these next-generation experiences. It’s a great example of a company kind of going cross-device and in the cloud to produce the next-generation experience for their users.
 OK. So thank you for that one. That’s a very cool demonstration. We appreciate JoyBits letting us use it.
Now let’s start going cross-platform. You know, I think people would assume the first thing we do is pull out an iPhone or an — but that’s been done and we’ll get to that a little later. Let’s go the other direction. Last year here we announced a partnership with Oracle and the ability to bring Java to Azure as basically supported by Oracle.
And so what I want to do now is hand off to John and show a little progress in that area.
 Yeah, so the Oracle partnership’s really been great. One of the things that you just saw in the last demonstration from Guthrie was this new portal. And one of the things that we’ve got in here, they showed the creation of a website. All I’ve done is I’ve created a new website and if I go to the site settings I want to show you how easily we’re now able to take advantage of Java.
And this is the first time we’re demonstrating this. Are you ready, Steve? Here we go.
 Yeah, go for it.
 There. All right, hold on, let me hit save. All right, that’s it. That’s everything necessary for you to go enable Java on Java websites. Notice we’ve got Tomcat, Jetty. 
And just to kind of illustrate this, here’s a very typical kind of starter application that a lot of people read, the Java pet shop. Take the war file, drop it up onto Azure, and now here is that app up and running up on Azure. We can browse through there, we can go look at the fish.
 Can you buy lions?
 No lions to be bought here.
 All right, all right.
 But you guys get the idea. 
We’ve made Java just incredibly turnkey. All of that existing code, all of that existing investment that you have, you can now bring very easily, and in a supported platform way.
 All right, and I think that’s a good place to start. I think the Web and Web technologies give us a great ability to go really, really broadly cross-platform, right? 
And so why don’t we start with another application? There’s a partner app there we have called Accela. They keep track of a huge amount of civic information. So if you make changes to your property or your house of anything sort of around your home and I’ll call it your homestead, they keep that information, and it’s a very, very rich set of data and information. They make it available up on the cloud through a site called CivicData.com. 
And what they want to do is they wanted to partner with us to try and make it accessible to developers, so that developers could actually use that data inside of applications. Typically this takes a bunch of work. You need a front door to this data. We do this work on the, you know — but it’s a lot of work, it’s not a small piece of work. And so you worked with them on this?
 Yeah. So one of the things that happened was we got together with Accela and as we talked about the kind of applications that they wanted to build, they wanted their partners to be able to build, we said, hey, we could help you create those kinds of applications.
So here’s an example of an app that’s actually powered by the data that Accela produces, but notice these apps typically have a lot of things going into them. In this case we’ve got news coming in, we’ve got reports coming from an ERP system, we’ve got integration with identity. So pulling all that together from these different sources is often one of the most difficult challenges that companies face.
So to kind of illustrate what’s going on here, let me go behind the scenes. And what we’ve done, as Steve mentioned, is we actually have a set of front-door machines. These are machines spread around that actually take the inbound requests, and as you can see here’s a deployment, and it’s picking up that cloud application.
But what it’s doing is this very interesting thing. There’s a couple of roles that we’ve configured. This is all code that’s available to you. And notice what we’re doing. Underneath the data portion of the URL we’re going out to Azure Mobile Services. For the news we’re going out to Amazon Web Services and we’re picking it up off of that. For the reports we’re using a Java-based ERP system to pull this together.
Now, I was talking to the CEO of VIGO last night, and he was describing how as they do mergers and acquisitions it becomes really important for them to be able to pull together all of these different pieces and put them into their application, and they’re really struggling with it. The idea of being able to use this approach is very exciting, where they can have common identity across many services, where they can do common monitoring, common deployments, A/B testing. All of that integration is available. 
All of this code that you’re seeing we’re going to have out on the blog post. This is actually live today in CodePlex. It’s a turnkey way to use the powerful capabilities already in Windows Server with the application request routing, ARR and on Azure. Simple one-click deployment from the portal, we think it’s a great way to go pull together and composite apps in the cloud.
 Good stuff, John, nicely done.
Now, that’s sort of a step. Let’s keep going forward.
Last year, after Build I was at another conference and we announced a set of templates that allow you to take Web experiences like this and websites, and very simply host them as a mobile application. So you can turn them into mobile applications, put them into the store, and make them available then as both a Web experience or website and an app. So we should be able to do that with this one.
 Right. So here’s the app, here’s the URL for this Web app, and I’d love to be able to just copy that and create a mobile application.
So we’re very excited to announce today that we have a new tool called App Studio that’s out there that will do this. You simply provide some information and it will go generate the appropriate packages for you to go drop in the store.
But let me actually kind of go — again let’s go under the covers here a little bit, and the thing that the App Studio project does is it produces one of these things we call the Web app template.
The Web app template, again open source code, you can see all the code that gets generated, but it’s largely driven by a config file written in JSON. And watch what I’m going to do here. I’m simply going to drop that URL in for that Web app. There’s various configurations you can put in here. You don’t have to do any of this stuff by default, we’ve just set one or two of them, and now I just run this thing and now there we go, there’s a Windows 8 app that was generated from that website, so just that simple, all available to you now.
 Thank you, John. 
 There’s more here, Steve.
 All right, let’s keep going.
 Just to kind of look around here a little bit, you know, this thing is integrated with things like the dropdowns, the touch and all that kind of stuff.
Now, one of the things, people have done this kind of thing before where they wrap up a website. There are some challenges.
 Yeah, there’s one problem when you take a website and you want to make it sort of the foundation for your application. When there’s no Web, there’s no app, John.
 Oh, oh, don’t — yeah, you unplugged the network. 
 Sorry.
 Yeah. So watch what happens on this app. Yeah, not so good.
That’s not the best experience. And so if you’re building this kind of thing, you really don’t want this to happen. You want the app to be responsive whether you’re online, whether you’re connected and disconnected. So why don’t you plug us back in?
 I’ll plug you back in, John. Sorry.
 Yeah, and let me close this app up. And I’m going to show you a cool new feature that’s been just released. It’s now live on the Web, and it’s this new section right here called offline.
And what we’ve done is we’ve enabled the super cache, so we’re going to turn this on to be true. I’m going to add one more thing. I’m going to add — I’m going to inject back into the system the HTML5 capability called IndexedDB. So we’re going to turn on the ability to store data locally. 
And are you ready for this?
 Yeah.
 Here is that same app now up and running, and notice I can — don’t unplug me yet. 
 All right, all right.
 I just want to wander around here for a second. I’m going to go look at properties near me. That’s going to load things into IndexedDB. I’m going to go maybe look at one of these properties. I’m going to go back home. And now I’m navigating around and everything seems good, and I can even update this stuff on the cloud. 
Now here’s the cool thing. Let’s go back home and let’s have Steve just pull the plug.
 Just one more time.
 And notice, watch what’s happening to the upper corner where it says caching. We’re about to go offline. We are now fully offline. Everything that was cached, all the navigation I did is still there. So notice the Bing Maps integration. We have just taken a website and we’ve really transformed it very quickly into a fantastic mobile application, and the code’s all there. You can take it, you can do anything that you want with this and really push the experience any way you want.
 That’s pretty cool. Nice work, John.
So let’s take it the final step. If you’re going to go devices, why don’t you show it on that device, and I’ll wander over here.
 Yeah. So I think it’s pretty cool to be able to take a website and turn it into a mobile app. We can do it in Windows 8. Here is that same app now running on the Windows Phone, which I think is pretty neat.
Now, notice one of the things that we did was we used a responsive interface so that we get appropriate layout. So this technique works best when the developer has really focused on building a great mobile application.
And so this is a good example of going across the Windows device, but you’ve got something.
 Yeah, so here’s I’ll just call it a non-Windows device. This is a nice HTC One. And you’ll notice if I open up and come into the device, here is that same app.
So as John’s noted, using the Web and the Web toolchain for going cross-platform, very easy to do. And I think the work John’s done with the templates they’re building to turn websites into apps, to make them work offline, and then to bring them into stores, both for Windows and non-Windows, is a super piece of work. I’d say great job, John.
 Yeah. Now, I’ve got one more thing to show here.
 So this technique has been used by a bunch of our partners. We’ve been working with a number of companies. This one happens to be the app created by a company called Zoopla. They’re the leading real estate company in the U.K. Notice that they’ve got this great experience. You can zoom in, you can interact with the application. These kinds of apps, when done right, with things like the offline support and those capabilities, we can take Web content, bring it to mobile applications, and create four-star-plus experiences in the store.
 All right, great job by the team on that one.  Yeah, come on, give him a little applause. They’ve been coding that for about nine months.
 All right, so one last thing I wanted to do, picking up from yesterday, so that was using the Web toolchain. Now, Kevin did a nice job, Gallo yesterday, showing one of his apps and taking it across Windows devices. And Scott talked about Xamarin this morning.
So what we thought we’d do is we’d take that application and we’d work with the Xamarin guys and overnight what we’d do is we’d bring it cross-platform. In this case I’ve actually got Kevin Gallo’s app — sorry — running now on my iPad.
And so basically overnight using the combination of the universal Windows project and then taking that with the Xamarin folks we brought it all the way over very quickly on that tablet.
 And I think that really that’s really the notion of universal that we’re looking for.
So here is that same app now running on an Android device, again started with that Windows universal app, partner with the Xamarin team, and literally my team overnight, we just took that app that Kevin had produced and we’ve now got all of this stuff running.
 Right. So I think in this case nice piece of work by the team. Thank you to Xamarin for helping us out there, Miguel and the team. 
So with that, I wanted to make sure and point out the fact that if you look across a lot of the things we’ve shown today, there are a set of SDKs for iOS and Android, from Azure, Office 365, Skype, Active Directory. We even have a division, Microsoft Open Technologies, that spends all its time working in the open source community, both contributing out, as well as working with partners who want to work with us. So there’s a lot of API sets, SDKs and work being done for cross-platform, and we want to make sure we’re doing a good job of getting that out to you and making sure you can get access to it also easily.
So with that, let me do two things. First, hopefully in less than an hour, we’ve done a good job of covering supporting a broad set of your existing technologies, whether it’s Mobilize.net or connecting to Office 365. Lots of entry points in a cloud- and mobile-first development, could be on the device side, could be on the cloud side, could be starting from scratch or building something on top of what you have.
And then lastly, working across not just the Microsoft set of devices and services, but whether it’s Java on the back end or an iPad on the device end, making sure we can do a great job working with you with our stuff, but also doing a great job working with you across all of the devices, services and partners you want to work with.
So with that, I want to thank our partners, great partners helping us show off a variety of demos today. There’s also with the announcement — I had one announcement earlier today with Autodesk but there’s three others, Airport, City, Star Walk and Rollerblade, apps coming into the store literally today, so every day we’re working with partners bringing new apps to the store.
And with that A) a giant thank-you, B) I hope we see you all tonight. The party’s at the Metreon. It’s right around the corner here, 6:30 to 9:30. So with that, have a great rest of the day. Thank you so much, Guggs and Shew and we’re out of here.
 Thanks very much. 
 Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome Executive Vice President, Cloud and Enterprise, Scott Guthrie.  
 Good morning, everyone, and welcome to day two of Build. 
We now live in a mobile-first, cloud-first world. Yesterday, we talked about some of the great innovations we’re doing to enable you to build awesome client and devices experiences. Today, I’m going continue that conversation and talk about how you can power those experiences using the cloud. 
Azure is Microsoft’s cloud platform and enables you to move faster and do more. A little over 18 months ago here in San Francisco, we talked about our new strategy with Azure and our new approach, a strategy that enables me to use both infrastructure as a service and platform as a service capabilities together, a strategy that enables developers to use the best of the Windows ecosystem and the best of the Linux ecosystem together, and one that delivers unparalleled developer productivity and enables you to build great applications and services that work with every device. Since then, we’ve been hard at work fulfilling that promise. 
Last year was a major year for Azure. We shipped more than 300 significant new features and releases. 2014 is going to be even bigger. In fact, this morning during the keynote, we had more than 44 new announcements and services that we’re going to be launching. It’s going to be a busy morning. 
Beyond just features, though, we’ve also been hard at work expanding the footprint of Azure around the world. The green circles you see on the slide here represent Azure regions, which are clusters of datacenters close together, and where you can go ahead and run your application code. 
Just last week, we opened two new regions, one in Shanghai and one in Beijing. Today, we’re the only global, major cloud provider that operates in mainland China. And by the end of the year, we’ll have more than 16 public regions available around the world, enabling you to run your applications closer to your customers than ever before. 
As we’ve seen our features and footprint expand, we’ve seen our adoption of Azure dramatically grow. More than 57 percent of the Fortune 500 companies are now deployed on Azure. Customers run more than 250,000 public-facing websites on Azure, and we now host more than 1 million SQL databases on Azure. 
More than 20 trillion objects are now stored in the Azure storage system. We have more than 300 million users, many of them — most of them, actually, enterprise users, registered with Azure Active Directory, and we process now more than 13 billion authentications per week. 
We have now more than 1 million developers registered with our Visual Studio Online service, which is a new service we launched just last November. 
Let’s go beyond the big numbers, though, and look at some of the great experiences that have recently launched and are using the full power of Azure and the cloud. 
“Titanfall” was one of the most eagerly anticipated games of the year, and had a very successful launch a few weeks ago. “Titanfall” delivers an unparalleled multiplayer gaming experience, powered using Azure. 
Let’s see a video of it in action, and hear what the developers who built it have to say. 
  One of the key bets the developers of “Titanfall” made was for all game sessions on the cloud. In fact, you can’t play the game without the cloud, and that bet really paid off. 
As you heard in the video, it enables much, much richer gaming experiences. Much richer AI experiences. And the ability to tune and adapt the game as more users use it. 
To give you a taste of the scale, “Titanfall” had more than 100,000 virtual machines deployed and running on Azure on launch day. Which is sort of an unparalleled size in terms of a game launch experience, and the reviews of the game have been absolutely phenomenal. 
Another amazing experience that recently launched and was powered using Azure was the Sochi Olympics delivered by NBC Sports. 
NBC used Azure to stream all of the games both live and on demand to both Web and mobile devices. This was the first large-scale live event that was delivered entirely in the cloud with all of the streaming and encoding happening using Azure. 
Traditionally, with live encoding, you typically run in an on-premises environment because it’s so latency dependent. With the Sochi Olympics, Azure enabled NBC to not only live encode in the cloud, but also do it across multiple Azure regions to deliver high-availability redundancy. 
More than 100 million people watched the online experience, and more than 2.1 million viewers alone watched it concurrently during the U.S. versus Canada men’s hockey match, a new world record for online HD streaming. 
 I’m really excited to invite Rick Cordella, who is the senior vice president and general manager of NBC Sports Digital, on stage to talk with us a little bit about the experience and what it meant. 
So the first question I had, can you tell us a little bit about what the Olympics means to NBC? 
 It’s huge. I mean, even looking at that video right there, I’m taken back to a month ago and how special it is, you know, what it means to the athletes. But what it means to NBC is big. It’s enormous for our company. Steve Burke, our CEO, calls it the heart and soul of the company. And if you consider how much content NBC, how many events NBC is connected to, that’s a pretty bold statement. 
Six months out, we actually take our peacock icon and adorn it with the Olympic rings. So for every piece of content that appears on the NBC broadcast network, the Olympic rings are present. It’s big for our company. 
 Can you talk a little bit about the elastic scale and how the cloud is kind of key to enabling it? 
 Sure. You mentioned that semifinal game between the U.S. and Canada that Friday afternoon. To be able to scale to that massive amount of volume is enormous. Setting records. You go from a curling match may have just one stream going on, to over 30 concurrent streams. 
And then, oh, by the way, you have five EPL games happening at the same time, a PGA tour tournament that’s happening, and you really need that planning to go into place as we scale out across 2,000-plus events with the NBC sports group. 
 Can you talk just a little bit in terms of — clearly, it’s a big deal for NBC. How critical is it to have an enterprise-grade platform deliver it? 
 The company bets about $1 billion on the Olympics each time it goes off. And we have 17 days to recoup that investment. Needless to say, there is no safety net when it comes to putting this content out there for America to enjoy. We need to make sure that content is out there, that it’s quality, that our advertisers and advertisements are being delivered to it. There really is no going back if something goes wrong. 
 Cool, I’m glad it went well. 
 Yeah. No, I mean, Azure — honestly, I know I’m speaking here, but Azure really played a critical role in this happening. It’s not as if you can just pick a company out there that has a product that you don’t trust to pull off an event of this magnitude. These are the largest digital events that any company pulls off. And we’re really happy that we worked closely with Microsoft Azure this time around. 
 Great. Thanks, Rick. 
 Thanks, Scott.  
 So we’ve talked at a high level about what you could do with Azure. Let’s now dive into specifics. 
One of the things that makes Azure unique is its rich set of infrastructure as a service and platform as a service capabilities and how it enables developers to leverage these features together to build great applications that can support any device. 
Let’s go ahead and look at some of the great new enhancements we’re releasing this week in each of these different categories. 
First up, let’s look at some of the improvements we’re making with our infrastructure features and some of the great things we’re enabling with virtual machines. 
Azure enables you to run both Windows and Linux virtual machines in the cloud. You can run them as stand-alone servers, or join them together to a virtual network, including one that you can optionally bridge to an on-premises networking environment. 
This week, we’re making it even easier for developers to create and manage virtual machines in Visual Studio without having to leave the VS IDE: You can now create, destroy, manage and debug any number of VMs in the cloud.  
Prior to today, it was possible to create reusable VM image templates, but you had to write scripts and manually attach things like storage drives to them. Today, we’re releasing support that makes it super-easy to capture images that can contain any number of storage drives. Once you have this image, you can then very easily take it and create any number of VM instances from it, really fast, and really easy.  
Starting today, you can also now easily configure VM images using popular frameworks like Puppet, Chef, and our own PowerShell and VSD tools. These tools enable you to avoid having to create and manage lots of separate VM images. Instead, you can define common settings and functionality using modules that can cut across every type of VM you use. 
You can also create modules that define role-specific behavior, and all these modules can be checked into source control and they can also then be deployed to a Puppet Master or Chef server. 
And one of the things we’re doing this week is making it incredibly easy within Azure to basically spin up a server farm and be able to automatically deploy, provision and manage all of these machines using these popular tools. 
What I want to do here is invite Mark Russinovich on stage to actually show off how you can use all this functionality and some of the cool things you can now do with it. Here’s Mark.  
 I thought we were going to wear black today, Scott. 
 Yeah.  
 Oh, well. Morning, everybody. 
So let’s get started. I’m going to show you how easy it is to create a virtual machine from inside of Visual Studio here by going to the Server Explorer, going down to virtual machines, right clicking, and then you can see a new menu item there, create virtual machine. 
Clicking it launches a wizard experience that looks a lot like the portals wizard experience, but I’m doing it right from here inside of Visual Studio. First step, take a subscription to deploy into. Second step, take an operating system image. I’m, of course, going to pick the best one on this list, the latest version of 2012 R2. 
Then I pick a virtual machine name. So I’ll give it a nice, unique name here. Provision a user account to log into the machine if I need to. Either create a new cloud service, or deploy into an existing cloud service. I’ll go ahead and pick an existing one. And then pick a storage account, into which the operating system disk gets created. I’m going to, again, pick an existing storage account. 
Press next. And the final step would be to configure any network ports that I want to open up on the machine. But I’m good with the default, so I’ll just press “create” and let it launch. In a few minutes, we’ll have a virtual machine ready to go. 
But that wouldn’t be that cool if that’s all you could do from Visual Studio is just create and delete virtual machines. 
What’s even better is that you can also debug your virtual machines right from inside of Visual Studio from your desktop. 
And to demonstrate that, I’ve got a Web service rich client application here. It’s an expense submission application. You can see I’ve loaded up the client and the service into Visual Studio. 
I’m going to launch the client here, just so you can see what it looks like. And it’s already prepopulated here with some expenses from my day yesterday here in San Francisco. 
Now, you can immediately see that something’s wrong. And that is that when I go to a Mexican restaurant for lunch, the margaritas that I drank come out to way more than $12. So I’ll fix that right there.  
And now let me switch to the virtual machine that the service is running. And you can see right here, it’s ready for an expense submission. 
And I’m going to switch back. And let’s just presume that I’ve got a bug inside of the submit expense method up in that service. And here we can see, submit for approval. I’m going to set a break point right there at the entry point. 
And now my next step is to connect Visual Studio up to that machine in the cloud so I can interactively debug it. 
The first thing I need to do is to enable the bugging in that virtual machine. And you can do that inside of Visual Studio by clicking on a virtual machine and selecting the “enable debugging” menu item. 
What this does is takes advantage of the Azure agent that sits inside of the virtual machine that I created to dynamically inject the Visual Studio debugging client. And once it’s injected, then I can go ahead and use Visual Studio to connect to it and debug the code that’s running inside that virtual machine. 
That machine that’s running that expense service already has that debugger agent injected into it. So all I have to do is right click, say attach debugger, and now I’m going to retrieve a list of processes running in that virtual machine, the one I’m interested in, the one running the service, which is right here. Expense IT service. 
I press “attach,” and at this point you can see Visual Studio is ready to hit that break point. So when I go back to the rich client and click “submit” you see I just hit the break point live, and now I can debug as if this thing was on my local desktop. So no more installing Visual Studio in the server.  
So the next thing that Scott talked about was the power of creating VM images from your running VMs that consist of complex setups with multiple disks. I’ve got a virtual machine up here called a RigVMBuild B. And you can see that it’s got an OS disk and a whole bunch of data disks attached to it. 
If I wanted to create multiple versions of this with those copies of the data on that disk, of course I could scrape together PowerShell scripts to do it. But with the new commandlets we’ve got and the new REST APIs we’ve got in Azure, I can do that very easily. 
And so here’s a PowerShell command that invokes the save Azure VM image commandlet. I’m going to go ahead and click that. And what that’s going to do is launch off a capture of that VM into a VM image that I can then deploy from. 
I’ve already actually created a VM image from that machine and I’m going to reference it right here. You can see this is a new Azure VM with a config here that specifies an image name, and that image name is the image name of a previous capture. 
What this is doing is provisioning a new copy from that new VM instance from that VM image capture that I made previously. And as Scott had mentioned, one of the cool scenarios for this is if I’ve got a test environment where I want to test multiple different copies, maybe throw a different test at each one in parallel. I can go stamp out multiple instances of that same VM image. 
Another way to use this, though, is kind of as a snapshot restore capability. So if I’m debugging and I want to go back to a previous point in time, I can capture an image at a good state, go do some work in the VM, then delete that VM and create a new instance back from that previous state. So two really cool scenarios enabled with this just with those simple commands. 
I’ll go back to the portal now to see if we can see that VM coming up, spinning up. And there it is, a RigDBVM. Hold on, let me refresh. And we should see that VM show up here, and there it is, it’s retrieving status, there we go, starting. This is the VM that I just provisioned. 
If I go take a look at its details, you can see that it’s got all those disks just like that original one did, just with the simple command.  
The final thing I want to talk about is the integration with configuration management systems. Specifically, in this case, Puppet. With the collaboration with Puppet Labs, we’ve made it very easy to go and create Puppet Masters from within Windows Azure by adding a Puppet Master image to our platform image repository. 
So you can see down here, we’ve got a Puppet Labs section. And if I click that, I’ll be able to launch a Puppet enterprise Puppet Master server inside of Windows Azure. 
But we’ve also made it easy to create Puppet agents, machines running the Puppet agent that connect to a Puppet Master. And that’s what I’m going to do now is switch over to here and create a Windows-based virtual machine. 
Give it a name, type in my name and password. Press next. And at this point, I’m going to see if the defaults work, because nobody’s taken that name. And the final step is to install the VM agent. If we’ve got the VM agent installed, we can use that same agent technology to inject other code into that VM. 
And the one that I’m going to inject for this demo is Puppet. You can see we’ve also partnered with Chef to get Chef agent support in there. And now at this point, all I have to do is tell it where the Puppet Master is. And I’ll just type in an example Puppet Master name. And at that point, when I go and provision that virtual machine, that Puppet agent is going to launch and connect to that Puppet Master and I’ll be able to manage it from there and deploy code into it. 
To actually show you deploying code into virtual machines on Azure from a Puppet Master, I’m going to invite up Luke Kanies, the CEO of Puppet Labs, to take us further into the demo. Luke?  
So we at Puppet Labs exist to help you automate the configuration and ongoing management of your — as we like to think of them — stupid computers. And the goal is to allow you to do a lot less firefighting and a lot less script running and a lot less maintenance of things like golden images and things like that and a lot more time getting your software in front of your users more often, more quickly, and a lot less hassle. 
One of the great things about Puppet is that it works on physical machines, virtual machines, it works in the public cloud, it works on private cloud, and really any combination of that. It works on pretty much any operating system you want to manage, anything you’re not embarrassed to admit you run, we can probably manage it whether it’s a network device or a firewall or a standard computer. 
And does this at massive scale. We’ve got tens of millions of machines under management by Puppet. And we’ve got sites that are more than 100,000 servers managed by just one Puppet infrastructure. 
We’ve got great companies who are using Puppet to do interesting work with the datacenters, including NASA, GitHub, Intel, Bank of America, and a lot more. 
So we’re excited to bring Puppet Enterprise to Azure. And I’m going to give a small example of what it looks like to use it here. 
So this is a relatively standard — this is just the normal interface to using Puppet Enterprise. You can see here we’ve got some machines under management, small number here, and the green bars are every time a Puppet agent runs and updates your infrastructure, it says, hey, something happened. In the blue case, it says we actually had to make some sort of change to bring you into synch. In the green case, it just says we checked, everything is great, we didn’t have to do any extra work. 
So in this case, I’m going to make some changes to our Windows Servers. I’m going to go to the Windows Server group. And what we want to do here is we’ve got an example machine that is running — you know, everyone uses the task manager for various things. I’ve heard there’s a better version of the task manager out there. 
And so what we’re going to do is see what it takes to update those. It’s a pretty straightforward operation with Puppet. We go in and in Puppet, the class is essentially the way of referring to the code associated with the function we want to do. So we’ve got a Puppet module named Microsoft Sys Internal. 
 Ah, you do have good taste in tools.  
 And with this, we associate this class with, hey, we want to do this work, the work associated with this with all our machines. And normally this change would propagate out to your whole infrastructure in the space of probably around a half an hour. If you’ve got 100,000 machines you have under management, you probably don’t want all of them hitting your servers at exactly the same time. 
In this case, though, we’ve got the system running on a relatively tighter timeline. And so we go look at it, and now we’ve got the better, far more powerful version running. 
This is a very small example of what you can do. You can manage complete application stacks. You can manage the infrastructure, all the kind of laying the bits down so that the system works up to I’ve got my whole application built, I’ve got my database, my application server, my Web server, things like that. 
So it really is a powerful system for getting all the work done from the bare OS up to a functioning, running application. This is especially important in the cloud where the whole goal here is if you can get your virtual machine up in five minutes, but it still takes you three weeks to configure the server, that kind of defeats the point. So the goal here is to get the speed of configuration at the same rate as the speed of building the machine itself. 
 Great. Well, this awesome collaboration between Puppet Labs and Microsoft, bringing Puppet into Azure is enabling our customers that use tools like Puppet to get started on Azure using their existing processes. 
To talk about that, I’m going to ask on stage Daniel Spurling, who is from Getty Images to talk about how this is helping Getty move to Azure.  
 Thank you. Good morning, everyone. We are Getty Images, we serve more than 1.5 million active customers in more than 185 countries, providing the best conceptual and editorial content in the world. 
We brought stock photography into the digital age, pioneering the ability to license content and imagery online. 
We push the envelope every day. When a photographer around the world takes a brilliant photo, we want that photo to be available for anyone in the world within minutes. 
Because these assets you see on the screen here, they have a job to do. They evoke emotion. Corporations around the world, companies of every single type, rely on us to help them tell their story. 
We also recently launched an embed product which allows anyone, anywhere, free of charge, to utilize over 40 million pieces of our high-quality imagery for noncommercial use. This is our first step into the consumer market. 
Now, we ingest and manage millions of images and videos. With millions of new pieces of content added every single day. And with that, for Getty to succeed, technology must have the same scale, agility, and global footprint as our company does in order to support our massive content flow, from any corner of the world, from Tokyo to Rio De Janeiro. 
We’re excited about the Microsoft Azure Cloud Platform, which works with our tools such as Puppet. It gives us the global scale and infrastructure anywhere that we need it, be it Japan or Brazil. We today actively use Puppet for automation and configuration management. And this will give us the agility and consistency we need to move across environments when we burst from our datacenter into an external cloud provider, landing it right every single time. 
As our business grows and our requirements expand, we will need to continue to support more content across more devices, and therefore, our infrastructure needs to scale with us dynamically and without friction. 
For that, the cloud that we choose and the tools that we use must truly be open and seamlessly support both our Windows and Linux environments. 
That’s why we at Getty are excited about the Puppet Labs and Microsoft partnership, and the value that Puppet and Azure can bring to our business and customers. Thank you.  
 So infrastructure as a service gives you a very flexible environment and enables you to manage it however you want. 
Actually, before I go there, a whole bunch of announcements here. You can see, what we saw here this morning with infrastructure as a service capabilities, we’ve really made a bunch of improvements to it. And just from a short list here of a number of them, you saw capturing deployed, Visual Studio integration, the Puppet and Chef support. 
We’re also excited to announce the general availability of our auto-scale service, as well as a bunch of great virtual networking capabilities including point-to-site VPN support going GA, new dynamic routing, subnet migration, as well as static internal IP address. And we think the combination of this really gives you a very flexible environment, as you saw, a very open environment, and lets you run pretty much any Windows or Linux workload in the cloud. 
So we think infrastructure as a service is super-flexible, and it really kind of enables you to manage your environments however you want. We also, though, provide prebuilt services and runtime environments that you can use to assemble your applications as well, and we call these platform as a service capabilities. 
One of the benefits of these prebuilt services is that they enable you to focus on your application and not have to worry about the infrastructure underneath it. 
We handle patching, load balancing, high availability and auto scale for you. And this enables you to work faster and do more. 
What I want to do is just spend a little bit of time talking through some of these platform as a service capabilities, so we’re going to start talking about our Web functionality here today. 
One of the most popular PaaS services that we now have on Windows Azure is something we call the Azure Website Service. This enables you to very easily deploy Web applications written in a variety of different languages and host them in the cloud. We support .NET, NOJS, PHP, Python, and we’re excited this week to also announce that we’re adding Java language support as well. 
This enables you as a developer to basically push any type of application into Azure into our runtime environment, and basically host it to any number of users in the cloud. 
Couple of the great features we have with Azure include auto-scale capability. What this means is you can start off running your application, for example, in a single VM. As more load increases to it, we can then automatically scale up multiple VMs for you without you having to write any script or take any action yourself. And if you get a lot of load, we can scale up even more. 
You can basically configure how many VMs you maximally want to use, as well as what the burn-down rate is. And as your traffic — and this is great because it enables you to not only handle large traffic spikes and make sure that your apps are always responsive, but the nice thing about auto scale is that when the traffic drops off, or maybe during the night when it’s a little bit less, we can automatically scale down the number of machines that you need, which means that you end up saving money and not having to pay as much. 
One of the really cool features that we’ve recently introduced with websites is something we call our staging support. This solves kind of a pretty common problem with any Web app today, which is there’s always someone hitting it. And how do you stage the deployments of new code that you roll out so that you don’t ever have a site in an intermediate state and that you can actually deploy with confidence at any point in the day? 
And what staging support enables inside of Azure is for you to create a new staging version of your Web app with a private URL that you can access and use to test. And this allows you to basically deploy your application to the staging environment, get it ready, test it out before you finally send users to it, and then basically you can push one button or send a single command called swap where we’ll basically rotate the incoming traffic from the old production site to the new staged version. 
What’s nice is we still keep your old version around. So if you discover once you go live you still have a bug that you missed, you can always swap back to the previous state. Again, this allows you to deploy with a lot of confidence and make sure that your users are always seeing a consistent experience when they hit your app. 
Another cool feature that we’ve recently introduced is a feature we call Web Jobs. And this enables you to run background tasks that are non-HTTP responsive that you can actually run in the background. So if it takes a while to run it, this is a great way you can offload that work so that you’re not stalling your actual request response thread pool. 
Basically, you know, common scenario we see for a lot of people is if they want to process something in the background, when someone submits something, for example, to the website, they can go ahead and simply drop an item into a queue or into the storage account, respond back down to the user, and then with one of these Web jobs, you can very easily run background code that can pull that queue message and actually process it in an offline way. 
And what’s nice about Web jobs is you can run them now in the same virtual machines that host your websites. What that means is you don’t have to spin up your own separate set of virtual machines, and again, enables you to save money and provides a really nice management experience for it. 
The last cool feature that we’ve recently introduced is something we call traffic manager support. With Traffic Manager, you can take advantage of the fact that Azure runs around the world, and you can spin up multiple instances of your website in multiple different regions around the world with Azure. 
What you can then do is use Traffic Manager so you can have a single DNS entry that you then map to the different instances around the world. And what Traffic Manager does is gives you a really nice way that you can actually automatically, for example, route all your North America users to one of the North American versions of your app, while people in Europe will go routed to the European version of your app. That gives you better performance, response and latency. 
Traffic Manager is also smart enough so that if you ever have an issue with one of the instances of your app, it can automatically remove it from those rotations and send users to one of the other active apps within the system. So this gives you also a nice way you can fail over in the event of an outage. 
And the great thing about Traffic Manager, now, is you can use it not just for virtual machines and cloud services, but we’ve also now enabled it to work fully with websites. 
And to show off all these great Web capabilities, as well as some of the great improvements that we’re making inside Visual Studio, I’d like to invite Mads Kristensen on stage.  
 Thanks. Hi, folks. I’m really excited to be here today to show you a few of the brand new features for Web developers in Visual Studio and Azure Websites. 
So let me start by creating a brand new ASP.NET Web application. And as a new thing, as you can see, we made it really easy for you to provision both Azure Websites and virtual machines directly from this dialog. 
You can even provision a new database directly from here, which lets you set up your entire development environment ahead of time. 
So now my project is created and Visual Studio is provisioning Azure, but it’s also now creating publishing scripts that I can use to automate my deployment. 
And I’m going to open it here in the brand new PowerShell editor in Visual Studio. I can make any modification easily. And I can even use this in my continuous integration environment. 
Now, let me switch to an existing website. So this is an ASP.NET application using AngularJS on the front end, and I’ve been building this with a few friends of mine. And if we just take a look here in the browser, we can see that this is called Clip Me. And it allows me to upload animated GIFs and have text burned into the animations automatically so it’s easy to share those images. 
And we’ve been working really hard on this website. And my friends have asked me here, can you please just change the background color of the header of my website? 
You know, I said, “Yes, of course I can do that.” So the thing is, I can’t really remember what is the style sheet that I need to find in Visual Studio and exactly where do I find the rule set that I need to change. 
Normally, what I would do is that I would open the browser development tools here, and then I would make my modifications here. And when I’m happy, I would go back to Visual Studio and I would do the same thing all over again. 
But now I can simply just change directly here in Visual Studio — in the browser, and as I make the changes, Visual Studio automatically syncs any change I do in the developer tools.  
I’m just going to go with my favorite shade of blue here. Now, this is using a feature called Browser Link. And Browser Link is a two-way communication channel between Visual Studio and any Web browser. 
So this works in Chrome, for instance, as we have right here. And notice how my favorite shade of blue has already been applied to the header. Because if I make changes in one browser’s developer tools, Visual Studio and Browser Link makes sure to stream that change into any other browser. 
So now here in Chrome, I’m noticing that I actually made a typo here. I have repeated a word. So I’m going to use Browser Link again. Now, I’m going to put Chrome into design mode. 
So now as I hover over any element in the browser, Visual Studio opens the exact source file and highlights my selection.  Yes. 
So now it’s as simple as simply just double clicking the thing that I want to change and as I make the change in the browser, Visual Studio just follows along. That is cool.  
So this website is getting bigger and bigger, and I have a lot of JavaScript code in my project. Now, the problem with having a lot of JavaScript can sometimes be that to make sure that we’re following the best practices all the time. 
So let’s just open here one of my AngularJS directives. And notice here that Visual Studio is now running JSHint directly inside Visual Studio. JSHint is a static code analysis tool that helps me catch common mistakes. 
So in this case, I forgot a semicolon, that’s easy to fix. And here, I should use three equals signs instead of two. I always make this mistake. So here we go, I save the document, the errors go away, and I’m now pretty happy. All right? I think that I have a great website now, and I’m ready to publish. 
So as Scott was mentioning, I can now take advantage of a new staging feature of Azure Websites. So I’m going to publish to my staging slot here. And we’re just going to hit the button. 
So now Visual Studio is publishing just my changes. And what it’s done, it’s going to open the browser and if we just zoom in here real quick, we can see that we have the dash staging as part of the URL. So that makes it easy for me to find out that this is now my staging environment. 
So now all my friends can now test the website in a staging environment. And when we’re all happy and make sure that everything works, we want to move this into production. 
So to do that, I’m going to go to the Azure portal and I’m going to hit swap. So what happens is that my staging environment is being swapped for my production environment. But some of my configurations such as my SSL certificates and public domain names, they stay where they are. 
And it only takes a few seconds, it’s already done. And now when we click the browse button, we’re now live in production. 
So let’s actually just create a new meme here. I’m just going to drag in an image and give it some texture. So what’s happening is that when I upload the image, the website is passing the image processing off to a background task. Now, this is something that’s traditionally been a little bit problematic to do in a reliable and scalable way. 
But I’m now able to take advantage of a new feature in Azure websites called Web Jobs. And this allows me to run background tasks in the same context as my website. 
And you see, I already created one here called the Gif Generator. I can write a Web Job in any language that’s supported on Azure Websites. But let’s go take a look at my implementation here. 
I’ve added a regular C# console application to my solution here. And I’m using the Web Job SDK, and that makes it really easy for me to listen in on any events that are happening in any of my Azure resources. And the rest of the implementation is just using regular .NET types and libraries. 
So this is really easy to do. And in order for me to publish my Web Job, I need to associate it with my website. Now, I’ve already done that. And it’s as simple as going up to my Web application and just make the association here through the Gif Generator console. And now the next time I publish my website, the Web Job is being published with it. 
Another cool feature that we get is we get a nice dashboard that shows me the invocation log. So here, every time my Web Job has run, sometimes maybe there’s a failure. And I can very easily go in, get the insights I need, see the input and the output, as well as a full call stack so I can very easily diagnose and fix the issue. 
So now we’re in production. Obviously, this website is going to go viral. So I want to make sure that I get the best user experience to all you guys. So I’m going to use the Traffic Manager, a new thing in Azure Websites. 
And I can set up Traffic Manager in three different ways. I can optimize for performance for round robin, or for failover. 
So failover is the scenario where I select the primary node. And in case of any failures, Traffic Manager is automatically going to route traffic to my secondary nodes. 
But since my code never fails, I’m going to optimize for performance. I’ve already set up Traffic Manager. So all I have to do here is to add my recently deployed website here into the Traffic Manager profile. And that ensures that no matter where you are in the world, you’re always going to hit the datacenter closest to you. 
And now if you load the website up again, you can see we’re being served from West U.S. because we’re sitting right here in San Francisco. 
So I just showed you how to easily create a development environment up front, use some of the new features of Visual Studio to create beautiful, modern, Web applications, deploy them to staging for testing, then on to production, and now scaling worldwide. Thank you very much.  
 So as Mads showed, there are a lot of great features that we’re kind of unveiling this week. A lot of great announcements that go with it. 
These include the general availability release of auto-scale support for websites, as well as the general availability release of our new Traffic Manager support for websites as well. As you saw there, we also have Web Job support, and one of the things that we didn’t get to demo which is also very cool is backup support so that automatically we can have both your content as well as your databases backed up when you run them in our Websites environment as well. 
Lots of great improvements also coming in terms of from an offer perspective. One thing a lot of people have asked us for with Websites is the ability not only to use SSL, but to use SSL without having to pay for it. So one of the cool things that we’re adding with Websites and it goes live today is we’re including one IP address-based SSL certificate and five SNI-based SSL certificates at no additional cost to every Website instance.  
Throughout the event here, you’re also going to hear a bunch of great sessions on some of the improvements we’re making to ASP.NET. In terms of from a Web framework perspective, we’ve got general availability release of ASP.NET MVC 5.1, Web API 2.1, Identity 2.0, as well as Web Pages 3.1 So a lot of great, new features to take advantage of. 
As you saw Mads demo, a lot of great features inside Visual Studio including the ability every time you create an ASP.NET project now to automatically create an Azure Website as part of that flow. Remember, every Azure customer gets 10 free Azure Websites that you can use forever. So even if you’re not an MSDN customer, you can take advantage of that feature in order to set up a Web environment literally every time you create a new project. So pretty exciting stuff. 
So that was one example of some of the PaaS capabilities that we have inside Azure. I’m going to move now into the mobile space and talk about some of the great improvements that we’re making there as well. 
One of the great things about Azure is the fact that it makes it really easy for you to build back ends for your mobile applications and devices. And one of the cool things you can do now is you can develop those back ends with both .NET as well as NOJS, and you can use Visual Studio or any other text editor on any other operating system to actually deploy those applications into Azure. 
And once they’re deployed, we make it really easy for you to go ahead and connect them to any type of device out there in the world. 
Now, some of the great things you can do with this is take advantage of some of the features that we have, which provide very flexible data handling. So we have built-in support for Azure storage, as well as our SQL database, which is our PaaS database offering for relational databases, as well as take advantage of things like MongoDB and other popular NoSQL solutions. 
We support the ability not only to reply to messages that come to us, but also to push messages to devices as well. One of the cool features that Mobile Services can take advantage of — and it’s also available as a stand-alone feature — is something we call notification hubs. And this basically allows you to send a single message to a notification hub and then broadcast it to, in some cases, devices that might be registered to it. 
We also support with Mobile Services a variety of flexible authentication options. So when we first launched mobile services, we added support for things like Facebook login, Google ID, Twitter ID, as well as Microsoft Accounts. 
One of the things we’re excited to demo here today is Active Directory support as well. So this enables you to build new applications that you can target, for example, your employees or partners, to enable them to sign in using the same enterprise credentials that they use in an on-premises Active Directory environment. 
What’s great is we’re using standard OAuth tokens as part of that. So once you authenticate, you can take that token, you can use it to also provide authorization access to your own custom back-end logic or data stores that you host inside Azure. 
We’re also making it really easy so that you can also take that same token and you can use it to access Office 365 APIs and be able to integrate that user’s data as well as functionality inside your application as well. 
The beauty about all of this is it works with any device. So whether it’s a Windows device or an iOS device or an Android device, you can go ahead and take advantage of this capability. 
What I’d like to do is invite Yavor on stage to show us how you can do it.  
 Thank you. 
Since we launched Mobile Services, we’ve seen some strong adoption and some great apps built on top of our platform, both across the consumer and enterprise space. 
If you’re not familiar with it, Mobile Services lets you easily add a cloud-hosted back end to your mobile app, regardless of what client platform you’re using. 
I’m here today to talk about an exciting new set of features that makes Mobile Services even more compelling, especially in the enterprise space. 
Let’s start in Visual Studio. We’ve added a new project template that lets me build my mobile service right from within VS. What’s even cooler is I can now use any .NET language. And our framework is built on ASP.NET Web API, which means I can bring my existing skills, my existing code, and I can leverage the power of NuGet. 
Now, we already have a project ready here that I created using the template. And you’ll notice it has a simple structure, contains only the things I need to know about. 
I have a to-do item, and that’s going to be the model for my service. And the next thing I need is a table controller that lets me expose that model to the world in a way that all our cross-platform clients understand. 
And then it wouldn’t be Mobile Services without great support for scheduled jobs. So I’ll go ahead and press F5. We finally addressed one of our top customer requests and added support for local development. We got a documentation stage right here with information about your API, and then we’ve even added a test client right inside the browser that lets you try it out. 
I’ll go ahead and send a request. And I’ve hit a break point in my server code. Local and remote debugging now both work great with Mobile Services.  
Now, as expected, I get my result back in the browser. But we’ve all built to-do lists with Mobile Services. What I really wanted to build for you today is a powerful line-of-business app with the cloud. 
So I was preparing here on the podium, and I noticed the mouse I was given is pretty broken. So I thought, why don’t I build a facilities app that I can use to report the issue? And then the facilities department can use that same app to take care of it. This is easy to do with Mobile Services. 
The first thing I’ll do is I’ll add a class for my model. And let’s call it “facility request.” And by default, this is going to use entity framework code first, backed by a SQL database. However, as Scott mentioned, we support a variety of back-end choices including MongoDB and table storage. 
The next step is to add a controller. We have first-class support for the Mobile Services Table Controller right here in the scaffolding dialog. 
I can pick the model class I created, pick the context, and just press add, it’s that easy. 
Now, this wouldn’t be a great enterprise app without great enterprise security. So let’s assume for a moment that my company has already federated our on-premises Active Directory with Azure. 
Adding authentication to my API is as easy as adding attribute to my controller. 
Now that we’re done with our service, let’s go ahead and publish. We’ve integrated Mobile Services in the same publishing experience that Mads demoed earlier. And I can pick an existing service or I can even create a new one right from VS. 
Let’s pick one I’ve created previously. And when I publish, this will deploy my code to Mobile Services, which provides a first-class hosting environment from my APIs. 
Now, let’s switch for a moment to the client app we’ve built. You’ll notice our app logic is abstracted away in a portable class library. And what that lets me do is easily reuse that code across a variety of client platforms. 
We’re already taking advantage of the Mobile Services portal SDK, which gives me some easy data access methods, such as the one you see here that loads up all the facility requests from the server. 
Now, what my app is actually missing is support for authentication. So let’s go ahead and do that. 
I can take advantage of the Active Directory authentication library, which gives me a native, beautiful login experience on all my favorite clients. I can then pass the authentication token to the Mobile Services back end so then my user is logged into both places. 
Let’s launch this in the simulator. The first thing it will ask me to do is log in with my company account. 
And once I’m signed in, it’s going to go and call out to our on-premises Active Directory and start pulling graph information about my user. As you see here. 
Now, we don’t have a facility request created yet, so let’s go ahead and do that. So it’s a broken mouse on stage. And then we can even take a photo. There it is. Missing a button. Let’s take that picture. 
And when I press “accept” the facility request will get safely stored in the Mobile Services back end. 
Now, we’ve added authentication with Active Directory, but what my app’s users will really want is integration with all their other great enterprise services, including SharePoint and Office 365. 
For example, the facilities department might want to create a document on their SharePoint site for every request they receive. It’s easy to build that for them with Mobile Services. 
Let’s go back to our service project and to the controller we added. And we’ll find the patch method. 
This method gets called every time a facility request gets updated. So I can very easily take advantage of the Active Directory authentication token to call out to the great, new set of Office 365 REST APIs, as you see here. And they let me generate the document on the fly and post it straight to SharePoint. 
Now that we’ve made our changes, let’s go ahead and publish. And while that’s going, we can go back to our app and now play the role of the facilities department. So we get the request, we’re going to take care of the broken mouse here. And then we’ll take an after picture. There you go. Much better. 
When I press “accept” my request will go through to Mobile Services and that will call out to SharePoint and generate the document. 
And we can verify that by heading over to our SharePoint site, my company SharePoint site here, and if I look inside the request folder, you’ll see there’s a new document generated just a few seconds ago using my company identity. 
The document itself contains all the great information that the mobile service sent over down to the images. It’s that easy to integrate Mobile Services and SharePoint.  
Now, there’s one last thing I wanted to show you. We mentioned that our Apps Logic is a portable library. And what that means is I can use Xamarin to reuse my C# investments across Android and iOS as well. In fact, we have the iOS project ready right here in Visual Studio. 
All I need to do is set the target as the iPhone Simulator and hit F5. I’ll go ahead and switch to a Mac here that I’ve paired with my Visual Studio instance. And that’s where the app is building and deploying right into the iOS simulator. And this is common in today’s bring-your-own-device world where your customers are going to expect the same great enterprise features in their favorite device. There you go. The same app running in the iPhone Simulator now.  
Thank you. So what you just saw was building a .NET back end locally, publishing it to the cloud, adding authentication with Active Directory, integrating with SharePoint, and then building a cross-platform client with Xamarin. 
The team and I are excited to see what you’ll go and build with these great new features. And if you’d like to learn more, please come and see me in my session this afternoon. Thank you very much. Scott?  
 One of the things that kind of Yavor showed there is just sort of how easy it is now to build enterprise-grade mobile applications using Azure and Visual Studio. 
And one of the key kind of lynchpins in terms of from a technology standpoint that really makes this possible is our Azure Active Directory Service. This basically provides an Active Directory in the cloud that you can use to authenticate any device. What makes it powerful is the fact that you can synchronize it with your existing on-premises Active Directory. And we support both synch options, including back to Windows Server 2003 instances, so it doesn’t even require a relatively new Windows Server, it works with anything you’ve got. 
We also support a federate option as well if you want to use ADFS. Once you set that environment up, then all your users are available to be authenticated in the cloud and what’s great is we ship SDKs that work with all different types of devices, and enables you to integrate authentication into those applications. And so you don’t everyone have to have your back end hosted on Azure, you can take advantage of this capability to enable single sign-on with any enterprise credential. 
And what’s great is once you get that token, that same token can then be used to program against Office 365 APIs as well as the other services across Microsoft. So this provides a really great opportunity not only for building enterprise line-of-business apps, but also for ISVs that want to be able to build SaaS solutions as well as mobile device apps that integrate and target enterprise customers as well. 
And what I’d like to do is invite Grant Peterson, who is the CTO of DocuSign, on stage to talk about how they’re integrating this functionality into their iOS app.  Thanks, Grant. 
 Thank you. Good morning. DocuSign is the global leader in digital transaction management. Our global cloud platform makes it possible for people to take personal and professional business and transact it for signature anyplace on the planet and keep it 100 percent digital. 
So I know a lot of you have probably experienced DocuSign either doing a real estate transaction or possibly signing an agreement with Microsoft. We’re excited to show that today. 
We have about 95,000 clients and about 40 million users worldwide using DocuSign every day in order to keep their business, personal and professional, digital. 
So today we’re going to show an application. I’d like to tell you that the DocuSign service is built entirely on Microsoft technology. The back end of our service is built on SQL Server, it’s run no IIS, it’s written in C#.NET, and we run our services, including Azure as part of our infrastructure. 
So today we’re going to show this, and we’re going to show it on a device that I never expected to show at a Microsoft conference, on an iPhone.  
So the DocuSign app has been downloaded about 3 million times on the iPhone. People use it every day to do transactions when they’re on the run. And it has an exciting new feature that I’m going to show, which is authenticating with Active Directory. 
So we can use Active Directory now, allowing people to use their enterprise credentials, which they prefer, for managing their devices and their access. And for the first time, they can log in with those credentials on a mobile device. Sorry, it’s hard to type. I just have to say DocuSign and Azure trust each other, and I’m now authenticated into DocuSign using Active Directory. 
Now, I would do a standard transaction that I might do on the run. Another exciting feature is I’m going to do a facilities request similar to the demo we saw a little bit earlier, but that request, I need to make an additional signature and do it on the run from my SharePoint account. 
So I just pulled this document up on SharePoint with an integration there. And now I’m going to go ahead and sign that. So it’s loading in the DocuSign service. It’s always slower in a demo. 
So what I’m going to do is I’m going to put my signature in this document. And I’m going to go ahead and draw my signature. Place it in a document. And I’m done. 
So what’s fun about this is I was able to sign it on the run. Now, I don’t want it on paper ever. And another great feature, not only was I able to sign it on the run using my Active Directory credentials, I was also able to pull it from SharePoint in order to get the document to sign. And I just saved it back to SharePoint, which also can happen automatically, so that our organization, from a legal perspective or from my own perspective, can gain access to that document at any point in the future. So no more paper gets lost, nothing hits the floor, and there’s the signature in the document in SharePoint straight from my mobile device on my iPhone.  
So we were very excited about this integration project. And one of the things we were most thrilled with was how easy it was to do. 
Here’s a small code sample of what it took to push the document back to SharePoint. So we found this project very approachable, we’re excited about the tools, and we’re extremely excited about what’s possible on Azure today. So thank you.  
 So I think one of the things that’s pretty cool about that scenario is both the opportunity it offers every developer that wants to reach an enterprise audience. The great thing is all of those 300 million users that are in Azure Active Directory today and the millions of enterprises that have already federated with it are now available for you to build both mobile and Web applications against and be able to offer to them an enterprise-grade solution to all of your ISV-based applications. 
That really kind of changes one of the biggest concerns that people end up having with enterprise apps with SaaS into a real asset where you can make it super-easy for them to go ahead and integrate and be able to do it from any device. 
And one of the things you might have noticed there in the code that Grant showed was that it was actually all done on the client using Objective-C, and that’s because we have a new Azure Active Directory iOS SDK as well as an Android SDK in addition to our Windows SDK. And so you can use and integrate with Azure Active Directory from any device, any language, any tool. 
Here’s a quick summary of some of the great mobile announcements that we’re making today. Yavor showed we now have .NET backend support, single sign-on with Active Directory. 
One of the features we didn’t get a chance to show, but you can learn more about in the breakout talk is offline data sync. So we also now have built into Mobile Services the ability to sync and handle disconnected states with data. And then, obviously, the Visual Studio and remote debugging capabilities as well. 
We’ve got not only the Azure SDKs for Azure Active Directory, but we also now have Office 365 API integration. We’re also really excited to announce the general availability or our Azure AD Premium release. This provides enterprises management capabilities that they can actually also use and integrate with your applications, and enables IT to also feel like they can trust the applications and the SaaS solutions that their users are using. 
And then we have a bunch of great improvements with notification hubs including Kindle support as well as Visual Studio integration. 
So a lot of great features. You can learn about all of them in the breakout talks this week. 
So we’ve talked about Web, we’ve talked about mobile when we talk about PaaS. I want to switch gears now and talk a little bit about data, which is pretty fundamental and integral to building any type of application. 
And with Azure, we support a variety of rich ways to handle data ranging from unstructured, semistructured, to relational. One of the most popular services you heard me talk about at the beginning of the talk is our SQL database story. We’ve got over a million SQL databases now hosted on Azure. And it’s a really easy way for you to spin up a database, and better yet, it’s a way that we then manage for you. So we do handle things like high availability and patching. 
You don’t have to worry about that. Instead, you can focus on your application and really be productive. 
We’ve got a whole bunch of great SQL improvements that we’re excited to announce this week. I’m going to walk through a couple of them real quickly. 
One of them is we’re increasing the database size that we support with SQL databases. Previously, we only supported up to 150 gigs. We’re excited to announce that we’re increasing that to support 500 gigabytes going forward. And we’re also delivering a new 99.95 percent SLA as part of that. So this now enables you to run even bigger applications and be able to do it with high confidence in the cloud.  
Another cool feature we’re adding is something we call Self-Service Restore. I don’t know if you ever worked on a database application where you’ve written code like this, hit go, and then suddenly had a very bad feeling because you realized you omitted the where clause and you just deleted your entire table.  
And sometimes you can go and hopefully you have backups. This is usually the point when you discover when you don’t have backups. 
And one of the things that we built in as part of the Self-Service Restore feature is automatic backups for you. And we actually let you literally roll back the clock, and you can choose what time of the day you want to roll it back to. We save up to I think 31 days of backups. And you can basically rehydrate a new database based on whatever time of the day you wanted to actually restore from. And then, hopefully, your life ends up being a lot better than it started out. 
This is just a built-in feature. You don’t have to turn it on. It’s just sort of built in, something you can take advantage of.  
Another great feature that we’re building in is something we call active geo-replication. What this lets you do now is you can actually go ahead and run SQL databases in multiple Azure regions around the world. And you can set it up to automatically replicate your databases for you. 
And this is basically an asynchronous replication. You can basically have your primary in rewrite mode, and then you can actually have your secondary and you can have multiple secondaries in read-only mode. So you can still actually be accessing the data in read-only mode elsewhere. 
In the event that you have a catastrophic issue in, say, one region, say a natural disaster hits, you can go ahead and you can initiate the failover automatically to one of your secondary regions. This basically allows you to continue moving on without having to worry about data loss and gives you kind of a really nice, high-availability solution that you can take advantage of. 
One of the things that’s nice about Azure’s regions is we try to make sure we have multiple regions in each geography. So, for example, we have two regions that are at least 500 miles away in Europe, and in North America, and similarly with Australia, Japan and China. And what that means is that you know if you do need to fail over, your data is never leaving the geo-political area that it’s based in. And if you’re hosted in Europe, you don’t have to worry about your data ever leaving Europe, similarly for the other geo-political entities that are out there. 
So this gives you a way now with high confidence that you can store your data and know that you can fail over at any point in time. 
In addition to some of these improvements with SQL databases, we also have a host of great improvements coming with HDInsight, which is our big data analytics engine. This runs standard Hadoop instance and runs it as a managed service, so we do all the patching and management for you. 
We’re excited to announce the GA of Hadoop 2.2 support. We also have now .NET 4.5 installed and APIs available so you can now write your MapReduce jobs using .NET 4.5. 
We’re also adding audit and operation history support, a bunch of great improvements with Hive, and we’re now Yarn-enabling the cluster so you can actually run more software on it as well. 
And we’re also excited to announce a bunch of improvements in the storage space, including the general availability of our read-access geo-redundant storage option. 
So we’ve kind of done a whole bunch of kind of deep dives into a whole bunch of the Azure features. 
Kind of go up-stack now and talk a little bit about our programming languages and tools. And one of the great things about Azure, obviously, is you can use any tool, you can use any language to program against all of these services. But in particular, as you’ve hopefully seen this morning, we’ve done a really great job in making sure .NET and Visual Studio provide a first-class experience and some real great productivity that you can take advantage of. 
Beyond just the Azure integration, though, there’s a whole bunch of other improvements that we’re making with .NET this week. You heard about some of them that we announced yesterday. 
One of the things I wanted to talk about a little bit today and highlight is some of the great work we’re doing in the language space. In particular with a project that we called “Roslyn,” which is our new .NET compiler platform. And I’m really excited to invite Anders Hejlsberg on stage to show it off.  
 Thank you, Scott. Thanks, everyone. So “Roslyn” is the name we use for our project to create the next generation of our C# and Visual Basic compilers, and also the services that are associated with them in Visual Studio. 
A key design point of “Roslyn” has been to change compilers from just being black boxes that take source code in and produce object code out, and turn them into APIs that allow everyone, all tools, to share in the intimate knowledge of code that only a compiler has. 
With “Roslyn,” you basically get full fidelity, complete API sets that allows you to generate, transform and analyze code. And this allows new experiences in our IDE such as an interactive prompt, better refactorings, new diagnostics and so forth. 
And because our C# and VB compilers are now written in C# and VB, we can also be a lot more agile when it comes to implementing new language features. 
So first thing I’m pleased to announce today is an end-user preview of the “Roslyn” technology for Visual Studio 2013. I have that on my machine right here installed. In fact, installing it is almost a no op. It’s just a v6 that you download and drop into Visual Studio. And when you enable it, you get a preview of what’s coming in the next version of Visual Studio, the new language services, the new C# 6.0, the next generation of VB. 
So let me try and play with it a little bit. One of the things that, for example, now that we can more easily write new language features, we’ve listened to your requests. And one of the requests that we’ve seen a lot is the ability, for example, to have static usings. Meaning why do I, for example, have to write math.pi all the time? Couldn’t I just import math, or using math, and then simply say pi? 
So let’s try to look at what that might look like in C# 6.0. So we can say using system.math here, and when I do that, you’ll see a few things happen. First, things gray out here because it’s redundant to both have a using a double qualification down here. But also the IDE now suggests a refactoring where we can simplify the type name. And because of “Roslyn,” we can now show you a preview of what this refactoring is going to do. Here it’s just going to change it to pi. So if I say simplify type name, you see now that also the system ungrays because it’s now being used.  Thank you. Thank you. 
We could also look at whatever other refactorings the IDE suggests here. We could introduce a local, or we could extract as a method. And, again, we use “Roslyn” to show you a preview of what’s going to happen to your code before it actually happens. 
Here, I’m just going to say yes, and then it drops me immediately into a “Roslyn”-powered rename experience where I get to name the new method. 
Now, let’s say that I name it something that already exists in my program. Now we show you this might not be a good idea, if you do, here are the following things that are going to go wrong. 
But I might also, for example, name it a name that I could use, but I would be required to then qualify the identifier and the IDE then shows me what would happen there. 
OK. So with Roslyn here today, we’ve thought deep about how can we take all of this functionality and give it the biggest impact possible? How can we allow you to use all of these fantastic features? 
And it’s a great pleasure for me to announce today that effective today, we are open-sourcing the entire “Roslyn” project.  Thank you. 
So let’s go look at that. I’m going to go to Roslyn.Codeplex.com. And here you see the home page for the “Roslyn” project. It’s still private. We haven’t published it yet. Let’s just look at what’s in here. 
We can go look at the source code here. Go to compilers, for example, C#. Source. Compiler. There, and here we see the source code for the C# compiler, or part of it. Thank you.  
Also, here’s the command I could use to create a clone of this repository. But, of course, first, we need it to be public. What do you think? Should I press it?  All right. Here we go. “Roslyn” is now open source.  Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. 
So now that “Roslyn” is open source, it would be fun to take a look at what we can do with the “Roslyn” project. Of course one of the things you’d be able to do is now implement your own language features. So why don’t we try to implement a language feature here? 
Now, we can’t be too ambitious in a keynote. But I was thinking that maybe we could introduce a new kind of string literals. In fact, how about angle-quoted or French-quoted string literals? 
So let’s see if we can make the compiler support this kind of string literal, which of course it currently doesn’t. You see that we get red squigglies and so forth. 
Now, let’s try and save this. And I’ve already cloned the “Roslyn” repository on this machine. So let me try to open up the “Roslyn” solution, which is right here. Here you see all of our compilers, language services and so forth. 
And we’re going to look into a C# code analysis and we’re going to go into the parser. And then we’re going to grab the lexor, which is the thing that creates tokens out of our source code. And then we’re going to go look at scan string literal, and this is the place where the compiler scans. And you see it concurrently recognizes single and double quotes. So we’re going to add an extra case for French quotes. And then we’re going to navigate to the actual implementation of scanned string literals, and we’re going to add one extra little case here for the opening quote. And then in the if statement that handles the closing quote, we’re going to modify that. 
Those three little changes is basically all we need to do. So now I’m going to press control F5 and build and launch a second hive of Visual Studio with my modified compiler in it that hopefully will support this fantastic new language feature. So let’s see what happens here. 
Here is Visual Studio now running. You can see it’s a different hive. It’s a different color. I can open up my area calculator project, and low and behold, we now support French quoted string literals.  Thank you. 
In fact, we even offer up refactorings that use French-quoted string literals because all of these technologies are just sort of automatically integrated. 
So all I got to do now is package up a pull request and submit it then we’ll see if we can get our new language feature into the language. Of course I will probably disappoint myself and not accept it.  
So now that “Roslyn” is open source, it also means that the “Roslyn” compilers can be used on other platforms. And when it comes to cross-platform, who better to invite on stage that our good friend Miguel de Icaza from Xamerin?  Come on up, Miguel.  
 Thank you, Anders. 
 You bet. 
 Thank you very much. Hello, everybody. I’m very excited to be here. As you guys know, we’ve been working on bringing C# and .NET to other platforms for almost 12 years. 
To celebrate the occasion, to celebrate the open-sourcing of “Roslyn,” we figured we would give everybody one of these nice C# shirts because we really like the C# language.  Everybody knows it’s better than the Xbox, so feel free to exchange them.  
But the way that we did it is that we actually created an iOS app. We created an iOS app, and the trick is you need to run this little iOS app to place your order. So if you want to get it, just come to my session later today and I’ll show you how to do it. 
But this is the app. It’s running on the iOS Simulator. And you can pick a men’s or a women’s shirt. This is an app that we just put together this morning. No, no. 
So you go, you order your shirt, and then you go to the checkout. Just press checkout here. And there’s a little problem. The only requirement that you have actually is that you enter your e-mail address before you order your shirt. That’s all you need to do. 
So what I’m going to do is I’m going to go and enter my login address here. And I’m going to use the exact same change that Anders just showed on stage. So instead of using the regular quotes, I’m going to use the French quotes here. So I hope that you guys can see that. 
Now, if I try to build this project, you’ll see that I get an error. This is because, currently, the IDE is using the mono C# compiler. But since “Roslyn” was just open-sourced, we’ve primed this machine to allow me to switch to a mono installation that has the “Roslyn” compiler already installed. And also has the patch that Anders just showed. 
So this time around, when I build the project, it actually succeeds.  Yeah. 
Now, you’ll notice that the IDE still has the squigglies. So unlike Visual Studio that already has “Roslyn” integrated, we haven’t really integrated into our IDE yet. But we’re going to do that. So that’s our next step. 
So now when you run the application, you can actually — this time around, it has my e-mail address. I’ll go here. I’ll add my shirt. I’m just going to go with green, just like this one. And I’m going to check out. 
And this time around, it asks me for my login and password. So close your eyes for a second. All right. Yeah. And I’m going to deliver this to my place in Boston. And that is it. And that’s it, guys.  
Now, we just wanted to give this little gift to Anders. It’s a pre-packaged shirt with a nice C# button. 
 Thanks. 
 To celebrate the occasion. Thank you.  
 Thank you.  
 Thanks, guys. 
So one of the things that we’ve been focusing on with .NET over the last couple of years is how do we embrace open source more? We’ve started with ASP.NET and a lot of the projects that we’ve put already into open source. And you saw with today’s announcement, an even bolder statement, which is now the C# compiler and the “Roslyn” infrastructure we’re contributing as well. 
One of the things we’re kind of excited to announce today is we’re actually taking kind of the next step in terms of open source. And we’re actually announcing a new .NET foundation that we’re going to use as kind of the umbrella for how all these projects get contributed. And it’s really going to be the foundation upon which we can actually contribute even more of our projects and code into open source. 
And we’re launching it today with the .NETFoundation.org website, and you can see here we’ve taken all the Microsoft contributions we’ve already done with open source and are putting them under the foundation’s umbrella. All of the Microsoft contributions have standard open source licenses, typically Apache 2, and none of them have any platform restrictions, meaning you can actually take these libraries and you can run them on any platform and take advantage of them. 
We still have, obviously, lots of Microsoft engineers working on each of these projects. But as Anders highlighted in his demo, this now gives us the flexibility where we can actually look at suggestions and submissions from other developers as well and be able to integrate them into the mainline products, and it’s something we’re really excited to launch. 
We’re also really excited that we have a whole bunch of other folks within the community that are joining the foundation as well. Xamerin is very generously contributing a number of their libraries. And we expect to see many other companies contribute as well. And we’ve got a great set of advisors that are joining and contributing as part of the foundation from a variety of different companies. And we think this is really going to take .NET to the next level and add even more energy and activity within the community. So it’s something we’re really excited about.  
So we’ve talked today about a whole bunch of features. I think we said we had 44 announcements this morning. I think maybe we have two more left, and they’re pretty big ones. And it’s basically, you know, what we’re working on is not only providing lots and lots of these great features, but also an integrated experience for how you stitch them together and actually take maximal advantage of them. 
As Azure is evolving to have more and more capabilities, we really want to have a new experience that we provide our customers that enables them to see all these different services, to be able to monitor all these different services, to have a consistent dev-ops flow across all these different services and be able to take all these different resources and all these different services that you’ve seen here this morning and provide a really rich way that you can integrate them together and manage them as applications as opposed to a lot of disparate, different features. 
And one of the things we’re really excited to kind of show off for the very first time is our new Azure management portal, which kind of does very bold reimagining, if you will, of our portal experience and we think is really special. 
And I’d like to invite Bill Staples on stage to show it off.  
 Thank you. What an exciting time to be a developer, especially a cloud developer. I mean, think about it, every hacker’s dream. We have access to tens and hundreds of thousands of computers, petabytes of storage, millions of devices. And we can bring these things together into things we call apps. And sometimes we even make money off of it.  
At Microsoft, we’ve built a first-of-its-kind experience that puts those apps at the center and seamlessly integrates across the developer, the platform, and the infrastructure services that you know and love. 
We’ve reimagined the cloud experience to be about your apps, your team, and you. Let’s go take a look. 
You know, every great story has a beginning. And our journey today begins with a new Azure start board. Think of this as your own personal NOC. This dashboard is completely customizable. You can pin the parts, the tiles on here that show access to your services, your applications, the data that matters most to you. 
Now, we’ve put a few parts on here by default. Probably the first one you notice, the biggest one, is the service health part. This provides you a global view of all the Microsoft Azure datacenters and their current health. 
Now, as a cloud developer, knowing the health of the services you depend on is job No. 1. It’s especially helpful if in the middle of the night you get that page and you need someone to blame it on. 
Let’s go ahead and check out what happens when I click on the service health part. We open what we call a blade. A blade is effectively a drill-down of the information, the next level of detail, if you will, from that part. 
Here we can see the service health blade that gives me access to all of the Azure services, and a summary view of their health. I can then click into any of these services, for example compute, and we see all the regions where compute is deployed and the status in those regions. 
And we can drill in, say what’s going on in West U.S. And we see, oh, there’s no problems, everything is running. 
Now, if there was a problem here, I’m excited to say, we would actually show Mark Russinovich’s contact information so you could give him a phone call.  No, OK. You can tell I’m excited, that part was an exaggeration. 
But this collection of blades that we’ve drilled into is what we call a journey. And it’s essentially a living bread crumb. You can now go back in the journey to see the previous context that got you to the part you’re focused on now. So I can quickly get from anywhere to anywhere. 
For example, let’s say I want to look at the website service health. I can click on that, and we see now all the stamps where websites are deployed and their health. 
We think this kind of modern information architecture and navigational structure is exactly what developers need building services in the cloud. 
Now, another really popular request that we’ve gotten from all of you, in fact we’ve been out talking to you in the hallways about what you think of the current Azure experience. And probably the No. 1 request is more insight into what the services are costing me. 
So you see the billing part here that shows me my primary subscription. Gives me a summary, effectively, of all of my usage on the subscription throughout this current billing period, access to summary of the last three months, and I can even drill into a particular subscription and see a comprehensive view of the charges going on that subscription. 
I can see the number of days left. I can see the burn rate, how much credit I’ve used. And even cost by resource. So I can see how much storage, how much bandwidth, how much compute I’m using. 
We even have a line item detail of all the charges that are going to show up on your bill at the end of the month as they’ve accrued so far. Just think, you’re never going to be surprised by bills again.  
So creating new instances in the new Microsoft Azure Portal is just as easy and simple as before. Right down here in the left-hand corner, I’ve got the new plus sign, I can click on that. And you can see I can easily access the set of services that we’ve implemented in the current preview. Access to our most popular PaaS website service that we demoed earlier, SQL databases, team projects. We’ve even partnered with our good friends at ClearDB to provide MySQL database access in the new Azure portal. 
Yes, this entire experience is completely extensible, and we’re opening up to all of our partners in the Azure ecosystem that want to integrate to provide a seamless management experience for everything you want in the cloud. 
Browsing existing instances is just as easy. I click on the browse hub, and you can see I can browse by resource, or even open up everything that I’ve got deployed and quickly access it. 
Let’s go ahead. I’ve actually pre-created a team project to help get us started today that I want to use to show off how easy it is to set up a dev-ops life cycle. 
I’ve got my Build project. We’ll click into that. And what you’re seeing here is a blade the represents a team project. This team project is the same team project and is powered by the same services that back Visual Studio Online today. 
We’re happy to announce that we’re integrating those into Azure to provide you a seamless and end-to-end dev-ops experience. 
So this is a blank one. Let’s go ahead and do some interesting things with it. For example, let’s set up continuous deployment. That allows me to set up a deployment target so that when builds happen on this particular project, they’ll automatically be deployed into a staging or production website that I can then go and test. 
Creating a new website is very simple. I just give it a name. Let’s call this one the Build Demo 2014. 
I can then — it prompts me for a repository and a branch to deploy from once the build is complete. And with that simple process, I’ve now wired up a brand new website and a team project that can automatically and continuously deploy the code changes that I make. 
Let’s go ahead and check in some code. So I launch Visual Studio. I just click on the “open in Visual Studio” part. You’ll notice it opens up and prompts me to clone the repository, so I can do that in just a few seconds. 
And then we’ll go ahead and create a new project. Now, this demo is more about the experience than the app, unlike some of the cool demos you saw earlier. 
So I’m just going to use the default MVC template for this purpose. I’ll go ahead and just check that in, call this the initial commit. And I’ll tell Visual Studio to both commit this to my local repository as well as push all the changes to the repository that’s in the team project in the cloud. 
With that, I’ll minimize Visual Studio and you saw right here on the blade the commit lights up, I can drill into it, you can see a history of all the commits. In this case, I just got the one I made, and we can see the initial commit. I can drill even further now and see all the files that were committed as part of that change. And even drill in further if you want. I’ll show you maybe in a little while how I can see code view right here within the Microsoft Azure portal.  All right. 
Now, if your projects are anything like mine, they’re probably backed by some work items, a backlog of sorts, sometimes called bugs. And my team loves to file bugs against me, and it looks like they’re already at it telling me what to do backstage. They’re telling me I forgot to instrument the code with application insights. 
We’re excited to announce that we’re also integrating application insights into the Microsoft Azure Portal to give you access to not only the great system-level monitoring that you get today with Azure, but also application-level and user-level analytics for your applications. 
To do that, you simply add a few lines of JavaScript code to your app. So they’re telling me, paste this in, and it’s backlog item No. 22. So let’s go back. 
I could open up Visual Studio again to make that change and commit and sync it just like before. But instead, let’s check out something pretty cool. Let’s say I’m on an airplane or on a tablet that doesn’t have Visual Studio installed. And I get a bug I need to fix. 
Right here in the Microsoft Azure Portal, I can drill into my source code. I can, for example, go into my shared views. Edit the layout files where this JavaScript needs to go. And right here, I get a full screen, syntax colored, IntelliSense editor in the cloud.  
I can paste in that JavaScript. And tell it we had — I think it was bug 23. Go ahead and commit that change. And in seconds, I’ve already committed that change to my repository without any tools necessary. 
Now, just to prove that’s true, let’s go back to our commits master. You see now I’ve got two commits, the first one and the second one showing up. I can even drill in, I won’t do that to save time. And also I can come back to our build definitions. We can click on that, and you’ll see I’ve got the first build already triggered and running. As soon as that completes, it will automatically deploy into the website, and I’ve got a second build now queued with the change I just made in the Microsoft Azure Portal that will run right after the first build is complete. 
Now, we don’t have time to let that finish, but let me just step back for a second and remind us what we’ve seen. 
We’ve seen for the first time a fusion of our world-class developer services together with the platform and infrastructure services in Microsoft Azure in a way which no one else is doing. This allows you to have a complete dev-ops lifecycle in one experience. Pretty phenomenal. 
I want to now sort of transition to the sort of operation side of the dev-ops lifecycle. We’ve got, I mentioned before, a new concept where we’re bringing together the various services that you use to compose an application into one concept. 
If we go back to browse, you’ll notice we have something called resource groups in here. They’re pretty self-descriptive. They’re, effectively, the set of resources or services that make up an application. 
For example, I’ve got a clip beam resource group here. This is the same website that you saw earlier in Mads’s demo. And we’ve been running it here for a while to give me a chance to demo it. 
You’ll see when I open up a resource group, I get an aggregated view of not only the website, but the team project and the database associated with this app. 
We show billing information, again, pervasive throughout the experience to give you an aggregated view of all the charges associated with the services linked to this application. 
I can even click into monitoring and see, again, an aggregated view of all the operations that anyone who has access to my subscriptions has done against this particular resource group. Spanning all the services so I can see hosting plan, website updates, alert rules, et cetera, all aggregated in this one view. 
Let me actually show you something else that’s pretty neat. Up here, the summary view, I get the topology of my app. I can click on, for example, the website and move from the resource group aggregated view into the website view. 
The website blade has some pretty exciting new features to show that work with our website service. For example, I’ve got quick access to analytics. This is the App Insights analytics I mentioned earlier where I can see which browsers are most popular for my site. I can see the sessions, the devices that people are using. Even get a feel for which pages are slow or may need a tune-up. 
With Web Test, I can actually measure the experience my customers are having from anywhere in the world. I can configure, for example, locations to monitor from and pages to hit, and then I can see the availability trend over the past week and the average response time my customers are enjoying. 
Let’s go down a little bit here and show billing information. Again, pervasive throughout the thing. We can see this website is costing me about $30 a month. I can even drill into pricing tiers to see what other options there are maybe to save money or to add more capacity. 
Right now, I’m running in the standard tier, which comes with all these great features. And if I decide based on the analytics that we saw earlier I need to scale up, I can simply click on a medium-sized instance, choose select, and this is one of the most awesome features of the website service. You’ll see we automatically scaled on demand, no configuration, no redeployment. You’re now running with twice the CPU and memory.  
Now, if we go back up here, we can see not only can I navigate to the website, but I can also continue this journey on to see the database. And I can monitor its connections, I can scale it as well. 
I’ll just take a pause for a second and remind us what we’re seeing. We’re seeing for the first time an application, a distributed application, side by side its website with analytics information. We’re seeing a team project with complete build, source code control, and we’re seeing a database all on the same portal, all in one experience, without having to switch tabs, switch portals, do OAuth handshakes, it’s all integrated in one. 
Now, this kind of rich UI experience is pretty darn powerful. But let’s say I want to capture this resource group, maybe describe it in a declarative way so that I can check it into source code, anyone on my team can then re-create that application anywhere in the world. Wouldn’t that be cool without having to click around? All those mouse clicks? 
Well, I’m happy to say that today with the Azure Resource Manager Preview, you can do just that. And to show that off, I’m going to actually exit out here and we’ll go to a PowerShell command line. 
Now, we’ve had PowerShell support as well as cross-platform command line support for a while now in Azure. But this is something new. This is something special. We’ve added a new set of commandlets that work against our new Resource Manager service to provide you a declarative way to quickly deploy applications and services. 
In this case, we’ve published some of the templates that we have as samples for you to quickly browse via PowerShell. 
You can see we’ve got ASP.NET websites, PHP websites. We’ve even got these resource groups with a Web plus a database. 
Let’s actually download one of those templates to start with and check it out. I’ve actually already downloaded one and edited it with some of the parameters that I want to provide as defaults to make things a little bit faster. But you can see, this is effectively a JSON file, a declarative way to describe the application and then go ahead and run that. 
You’ll see we’ve got a section here for describing the database we want to create. Another section for describing the website we want to create. And even cooler, we can pass context between services, for example, pass the connection information from the database to the website when it’s being created, and configure that up so that I have a web.config with the database connection string in it by default, without having to look that information up. 
Now, you could write code to do all of this today, but how much easier is it to just have it all right here in JSON and run a single command shell to execute it? Let’s go ahead and see that in action. 
I’ve got a new Azure resource group commandlet. I’ll pass in the template file. And it’s going to prompt me for a couple of parameters I didn’t supply. So in this case, let’s call this the Build RG Demo. And we’ll give it a location, let’s do West U.S., right here next to home. 
You’ll see what happens is we upload the template up into blog storage. We parse it, and then begin execution across the set of services. We actually execute the provisioning of these services in parallel to speed things up. And then we begin passing the context back and forth. 
Not only do we do that, but we also set up the ancillary services that support the website and the database. Things like auto-scaling settings, alerts and notifications. 
Combining this with the Puppet and Chef features you saw in Mark’s demo earlier provides you enormous power. Just think, you can now just deploy services that span platform services, infrastructure services anywhere in the world, completely customize them, and deploy them in minutes. 
I just stood up a website and a database in less than a minute without writing a single line of code. Pretty amazing, huh?  
Just to show it’s real as well, I wanted to come back to our portal. You’ll see I’ve got the resource group displayed, and already lit up we see the Build RG Demo resource group that I created earlier. We can click into it, we see the website, we see the database, we see the event information. Again, I didn’t execute this, I didn’t create this in the portal, but we still get all the rich diagnostics information. And I even got a notification that something was happening on the command line. 
This could have been done by a co-admin on my account. I don’t need to care. I’ve got all the same access to the information right here in the Azure Portal. 
Now, to conclude the operations part of this demo, I wanted to show you an experience for how the new Azure Portal works on a different device. You’ve seen it on the desktop, but it works equally well on a tablet device, and is really touch friendly. Check it out on your Surface or your iPad, it works great on both devices. 
But we’re thinking as well if you’ve got a big-screen TV or a projector lying around your team room, you might want to think about putting the Microsoft Azure portal as your own personal NOC. 
In this case, I’ve asked the Office developer team if we could have access to their live site blog. So they made me promise, do not hit the stop button or the delete button, which I promised to do. 
This is actually the Office developer blog site. And you can see it’s got almost 10 million hits already today running on Azure Websites. So very high traffic. 
They’ve customized it to show off the browser usage on their website. Imagine we’re in a team scrum with the Office developer guys and we check out, you know, how is the website doing? We’ve got some interesting trends here. 
In fact, there was a spike of sessions it looks like going on about a week ago. And page views, that’s kind of a small part. It would be nice to know which page it was that spiked a week ago. Let’s go ahead and customize that. 
This screen is kind of special because it has touch screen. So I can go ahead and let’s make that automatically expand there. Now we see a bigger view. Wow, that was a really big spike last week. What page was that? We can click into it. We get the full navigation experience, same on the desktop, as well as, oh, look at that. There’s a really popular blog post that happened about a week ago. What was that? Something about announcing Office on the iPad you love. Makes sense, huh? So we can see the Azure Portal in action here as the Office developer team might imagine it. 
The last thing I want to show is the Azure Gallery. We populated the gallery with all of the first-party Microsoft Azure services, as well as the great partners that we’ve worked with so far in creating this gallery. And what you’re seeing right here is just the beginning. We’ve got the core set of dev-ops experiences built out, as well as websites, SQL, and MySQL support. But over the coming months, we’ll be integrating all of the developer and IT services in Microsoft as well as the partner services into this experience. 
Let me just conclude by reminding us what we’ve seen. We’ve seen a first-of-its-kind experience from Microsoft that fuses our world-class developer services together with Azure to provide an amazing dev-ops experience where you can enjoy the entire lifecycle from development, deployment, operations, gathering analytics, and iterating right here in one experience. 
We’ve seen an application-centric experience that brings together all the dev platform and infrastructure services you know and love into one common shell. And we’ve seen a new application model that you can describe declaratively. And through the command line or programmatically, build out services in the cloud with tremendous ease. 
I’m so excited to show this off to you today. I hope you love it. Go check it out. And we hope to hear your feedback soon. Thank you very much.  
 We’re really excited about this new experience, and really I think it kind of is a capstone in terms of what Azure offers. It lets you bring together IaaS, it lets you bring together PaaS services and fuse them together into single applications. It enables you to kind of light up the entire dev-ops experience from development to deploy to analytics and learning, and we think really hopefully this will be transformational in terms of enabling developers as well as operations to be much more smooth in the cloud and really leverage the full power of the cloud going forward.
And we’re really excited that starting today we’re opening up the new portal to all Azure customers. And so everything you saw here in the demo just a few minutes ago you’ll be able to do on your own subscription starting this afternoon. 
We’re also announcing the preview of our new Azure Resource Manager, which allows you to orchestrate and take all those different services and basically program them together and be able to do a single deployment of a resource group in order to manage it. That ultimately will support all Azure services so you’ll be able to compose again both IaaS and PaaS pieces together. I’m really excited to announce the first preview today.
And then we’re also excited to announce the general availability of Visual Studio Online, which was the back-end services that we used to power all of those dev-ops scenarios. That’s now generally available. You’ll be able to use it both in the preview portal, as well as in our existing management portal, and enable you to kind of take advantage of these developer SaaS services in a unique way.
So hopefully you saw lots of stuff coming with Azure. We’ve got a busy year still ahead of us with lots more features that are going to be coming over the next couple events, but I hope you got a good taste of some of the things that are happening and some of the momentum that we have.
You can sign up if you’re not already an Azure customer today by going to Azure.Microsoft.com, and we’d love to have you give it a try, send us your feedback, and we hope you’re successful with the cloud.
Thank you very much. 
And here’s Steve Guggenheimer to talk to our next keynote.
 Good morning. My name is Quentin Clark. I am the product leader for the data platform at Microsoft. I’d like to welcome you and thank you for spending the day with us today. 
Data is becoming an increasingly important part of our world. And it’s emerging as a major dividend for customers and their businesses. 
We’re really excited about the kinds of things we see customers doing with data and the role their products play in achieving that. You’re going to be hearing a lot more about data today. 
Satya Nadella is going to come up and speak about the ambient intelligence and the need for a data culture. 
Kevin Turner is going to join us and speak about the value you get from the data dividends and the kinds of value that businesses will achieve by embracing that data culture. 
And then I’ll be back and I’ll be speaking about the products and showing how we achieve this. 
It’s going to be a great day. I really want to thank you for spending the time, and we’ll get started in just one moment. 
  Good morning. Good morning and welcome. It’s a real pleasure to be back in San Francisco. I had the chance to be here, in fact, twice in the last three weeks. We first had a chance to talk about our mobile-first and cloud-first vision and focus that’s driving everything that we’re doing across Microsoft. 
We talked about a couple of different aspects of our strategy. In the first event, I talked about Office 365 as a cloud service that’s going to be fundamentally transformed for a mobile-first, cloud-first world where we’re going to make Office available on every device and for everyone. And we launched Office on the iPad. 
We also talked about the enterprise mobility suite at that event where we’re bringing together a comprehensive IT architecture for everything from device management to identity management to data protection. 
And then last week at our developer conference at Build, we had a chance to talk about Windows in a mobile-first, cloud-first world. We started off talking about the universal Windows applications, which really increases the developer opportunity across the entire family of Windows, from large screens to small screens, and having that commonality of API surface area, which we think is a big differentiator for how Windows and our tooling around Windows creates the developer opportunity. 
We also had a new update to Windows Phone. In fact, the reviews of it I think came out yesterday and they’re coming out even still. We introduced this new feature which is this intelligent agent in Cortana, which is just an exciting thing. It’s got a lot to do with, in fact, today’s topic even. 
And then we talked about 250-odd features. Scott Guthrie talked about 250-odd features of our Azure product and service, which is the core cloud infrastructure for developers and enterprises. So we had all of that go on in the last couple of weeks. 
And today, I want to talk about another aspect of our strategy as we move forward in this cloud-first, mobile-first world. And that’s data. And more specifically, the data platform. It’s very central to our vision going forward. It’s very central to our customers. So we want to spend the time today talking about how we’re moving that agenda forward. 
Now, one of the things is it’s already a pretty big business for us. It’s one of those businesses that’s hidden. It’s just one of those things that we don’t like to talk about it as much. But it is a pretty significant business. SQL Server alone is over $5 billion for us, and it’s growing at a rapid rate. 
We have new growth in Azure storage that’s at unprecedented levels. In fact, it just doubles every six months. 
We have, of course, Excel on the other end, which is the most ubiquitous tool when it comes to people dealing with data. So we have a pretty broad set of technologies that come together to make our data platform. 
But of course what’s most important to us and to our customers is: How are we evolving our data platform going forward in a world that’s mobile first, cloud first? And that’s what we want to talk about today. 
When we characterize the future as we see it, the world view we come to is this notion of ubiquitous computing and ambient intelligence. 
There are three trends that are at play at increasing levels. The first one is the ubiquity of the computing fabric itself. It comes in the form of sensors, it comes in the form of devices everywhere — big screens in the living room, big screens in the conference room. It’s that core evolution of silicon, hardware and software that just puts computing pretty much everywhere a human being is present, where humans are interacting with machines. 
The second trend that is also pervasive is the increasing rates of digitizing every experience that you have with computers. So, for example, we have every human interaction with other humans just completely digitized. The interactions between humans and machines is increasingly digitized, as well as the interactions between machines. So these are all trends that are accelerating. 
The last thing, of course, is that you have now this enormous capacity to reason over all of this digitized information to, in fact, enhance those very interactions and experiences that are being digitized. So these three trends together is what form the world of ubiquitous computing and ambient intelligence. 
And if you look at that world through the lens of data, what you see is this constant, ever-increasing data exhaust that comes from ubiquitous computing. You can envision this as logs from our servers; it can be data from sensors; it can be you social stream data, which is unstructured information. It can even be transactional information that’s happening at an increasing rate. So you have this constant exhaust. And of course, that all acts as the fuel for ambient intelligence. 
Now, the question is: How does that magic happen? How do we go from data exhaust to this notion of ambient intelligence? And that’s where you need to build out a platform and you need to take a platform approach to be able to bring what have been disparate sets of technologies together. And that is, simply put, our vision with what we describe as the data platform or the ambient intelligence platform. 
We want to take an architectural approach that brings together different products from Excel on one end to SQL Server and Hadoop on the other end. So these are different products that all have to come together in one cohesive architecture to create this notion of ambient intelligence. 
We also want to bring together technologies. Things like in-memory, which really improve the speed and throughput of everything that you do around data as part of that architecture. 
You want to be able to bring new capabilities like machine learning that improve our ability to reason using statistical methods that we’ve not done in the past to this very same architecture. 
So that’s really what we want to talk about. And so if you click down on this notion of ambient intelligence, there are three core things. And it starts for us with people. It starts with everyone in an organization having the curiosity, having the questions, trying to test out hypotheses, trying to gain insights and then take action. 
So to us, any notion of building out a data platform or an ambient intelligence platform has to start by weaving people into the center of it all. And the way we do that is by really taking the Office canvas and making it data aware. 
You can sort of say PivotTables were the first generation of it. But now we’re going beyond that by making it possible for you to have, inside of a PowerPoint presentation or an Excel spreadsheet, access to all the data all the time and for you to be able to ask simple questions and get answers. Not because we’ve cut off the data into some silo that goes with an Office document, but think of Office as, in fact, the canvas or the surface area or the scaffolding from which you can access all the data, do the complex queries, but in a very natural way. 
So to that, if there is one core differentiating aspect to how we approach the problem of data, it’s perhaps that. It’s to transform Office as the UI for data. 
The second piece is also to transform the core middle tier of data, which is the analysis and processing layers, so that you can deal with the variety of data that we’re faced with. It’s the structured information coming from your transactional system. It’s the unstructured that’s coming from, perhaps, your social streams. It’s the log data that’s coming from your servers. 
You want to be able to reason over all of that. That means you want to bring together what has been, to date, the two different worlds of power data warehouses built on SQL technology, as well as technologies like Hadoop into one fabric on which you can do analysis and computation. 
This is a place where we will also bring in new capabilities around machine learning over time so that you have the same technology fabric for you to be able to do analysis. 
The last aspect is around data itself and the storage system itself. And now, in this area, there’s some fundamental changes happening, starting with just the memory hierarchy. If you think about it, the late Jim Gray used to talk about how the disk is the new tape. And guess what, now it’s true. Now you have in-memory technologies fundamentally getting plumbed into the full transactional systems, BI systems, as well as the data warehousing systems of SQL that make the throughput and speed of these data-processing systems so much more faster. 
So that fundamental change pretty much changes all aspects of how we thought about data and how we thought about the speed with which we did business around data. 
So these three areas of people, analytics and data storage is what constitutes the build-out of the ambient intelligence platform. 
Now, talking about technology is one thing, but if you really as an organization want to change anything, it’s about culture. And when it comes to data and to be able to truly benefit from this platform, you need to have a data culture inside of your organization. 
For me, this is perhaps the most paramount thing inside of Microsoft. If you look at it, what it is that we are in the business of? We create services and products and devices. And the thing that we need to do a better job on than anyone else is to be able to learn from our customers and the data, the exhaustive usage, and to continuously improve our products and services. That’s our job No. 1, by far. 
And it’s not going to happen without having that data culture where every engineer, every day, is looking at the usage data, learning from that usage data, questioning what new things to test out with our products and being on that improvement cycle, which is the life blood of Microsoft. 
Now, it’s not just about engineering and development at Microsoft; in fact, every aspect of Microsoft from finance, how they’re going to do continuous forecasting in this very rapidly evolving world of ours. How does HR do people analytics? How does real estate, in fact, manage the real estate facilities? Because now if you’re in the cloud business, real estate is not just about housing people, it’s more important to us given all the datacenters that we run and the environment around the datacenters because that’s basically tied to our SLAs to our customers. 
So there is every aspect of Microsoft business is being fundamentally transformed because of data. And that doesn’t happen because of technology, it happens because you have to build deeply into the fabric of the company a culture that thrives on data. 
So we want to talk about this. And we want to show you how Microsoft itself is using data and inculcating this notion of data culture across the various aspects of how we run our business. And to show you that, I wanted to invite up on stage Eron Kelly from our data platform team. Eron? 
 Thanks, Satya.  
Well, it’s great to be here and talk about how Microsoft employees have fully embraced the data culture. And we’ve done this by transforming the tools that you use every day like Office and really allow them to easily unlock the value of ambient intelligence. 
No longer are we looking at static reports and charts. Now it’s about interactive and rich experiences. 
Let me show you a couple of vignettes. I’m going to start with our cybercrime team. Now, at Microsoft, we have a cybercrime team whose mission is to identify botnets when they enter the wild, understand how they work and analyze them, then shut them down and help local law enforcement arrest the criminals.
Now, of course, as you can imagine, that generates a lot of data. And you need to analyze a lot of data. But the challenge you have is the lawyers and investigators aren’t data scientists by trade. And so when they see data like this, it’s interesting and important, but it’s hard for them to really see the big trends. 
That’s where a tool like Power Map comes in, which is part of Excel. It allows me to now richly visualize that data in a 3-D interactive map. It’s kind of like going from the “Andy Griffith Show” to “NCIS” if you think about it.  
OK, so what you see here is a list of all these infected machines around the world. And one of the things we’ve learned over the last couple of years is that these criminals don’t like to have viruses installed on machines in their home countries. Why? They don’t like the idea of local law enforcement coming after them, right? They’d rather be at arm’s length. 
And so if we look at this map here, we can see that there’s a lot of infection here in the U.S. So the criminals are probably not in the U.S. 
So if I span the globe here. Let me go check out Western Europe. Oh, Western Europe, a lot of infection there. Those are probably not where the criminals are hiding. But, gosh, there is a very bright line there that separates Western Europe from Eastern Europe, specifically the Ukraine and Russia, right? OK, well, in fact, as our engineers started to reverse engineer the botnets, they saw that they were designed to not install on machines with Ukrainian and Russian language packs. 
So armed with rich information like this, the investigation team was able to narrow their investigation and rapidly catch the criminals. It’s a great example of how you’re accelerating that insight to quicker arrests and richer experiences. So here’s just one great example. 
So let me switch to finance. Satya mentioned our finance teams. And our finance teams have been using these tools for all kinds of things, including the incredibly exciting area of cost management. 
Now, just at the mention of cost management, I see that the gentleman in the front row is already starting to yawn, and that’s OK, I understand that. Because this is kind of how we would do it, right? 
So if we looked at airfare at Microsoft, we spend hundreds of millions of dollars a year in travel. And so it’s an important area to focus on. But, historically, it was like this, right? You go through slides talking about costs. And, yes, the gentleman in the front row has now completely fallen asleep. And I don’t blame him because at Microsoft, we would do 27 slides per country, times 50 countries, 1,350 slides around airfare and cost management. Really, really difficult. 
Now, it’s just one Power View. Interactive and rich, one slide versus 1,300. I can choose a country like France. I can see how the cost in France over the years has gone up. Maybe that’s a bad thing. But if I go over here and look at what percentage of trips are external versus internal, I can see that my external trips are going up. That’s a good thing. That means my sellers are out visiting customers, creating better experience with them. 
If I switch and look at internal, I can see that my internal costs are going down. So the number of trips that people are doing to visit internal customers and visit internal folks is going way down. That’s a great thing. And it’s because, in France, they’ve used Lync a lot. 
Now, one of the really important metrics, of course, is cost per mile. And you can see cost per mile has been going down over the last couple years. What are the big drivers? Well, of course, one of them is when you schedule your ticket. If you schedule your ticket over 21 days out, you can see that the cost per mile is cut in half. If you’re late, like me sometimes, you can see how the cost per mile is more than double that average. 
OK, that’s intuitive. People understand that. But in the past, that was buried on slide 17 — it was hard to see. Now it’s front and center. Everyone can interact with it and see the data. It’s very, very rich. It’s a great example of a data culture. 
Now, speaking of everyone, Satya mentioned the real estate team. And our facilities folks have been using this technology as well to better understand power consumption around the buildings within the Redmond area. And so if I take you to some of their data, again, it’s kind of like this. It’s hard for sort of the non-data scientists to really find the insights. And, again, I’m going to go to Power Map, which is a great way of visualizing data. 
Now, in this case, I’m looking at two things. I’m looking at the power consumption by building, that’s the bars. And I’m also seeing what the average temperature is in the Redmond area, that’s this heat map. And what’s really cool about this is I can just play this animation and see the interaction. 
Now, no, this is not the bass line for the latest Macklemore song. This is, in fact, the interaction between power goes up as the temperature goes down. As the temperature in Redmond goes up, the power consumption goes down. So you can see that interaction. It’s very rich, it’s very intuitive and it’s engaging. Everyone can find an insight from that. 
But I want to drill deeper. So I want to come over here and talk about an incredible new feature as part of our Power BI service called Q & A. Now, what Q & A does, like it sounds, it allows you to ask a question and get an answer. 
So if I start here with that same data set, let me just take a look at, say, total energy by date. So now what I’m doing is I’m looking at the total energy by date. If I can type. Yeah. Total energy by date. 
And I can see that same pattern that we saw in the past with — there we go — you can see the same pattern that we saw on the animated Power Map. You can see energy consumption is much higher during the winter months, and it’s much lower in the summer months. Unfortunately, in Redmond, we don’t have a lot of need for air conditioning in the summer. I wish that wasn’t the case. But you can see that consumption. Rich, interactive chart. 
I can also, say, look at it by building. And what Q & A does is it says, “Hey, you’re interested in a comparison of buildings, let me give you a bar chart.” And I can immediately see that Braeburn 1 is using a lot of energy. 
All right, so we need to go out and talk to the folks at Braeburn 1. Or do we? Maybe if I look at another comparison and if I compare it versus people, I can see the scatter plot. And now I see that Braeburn 1 actually has one of the largest buildings on campus. It has more people annually that go to it than other buildings. And so the energy consumption is kind of on that diagonal like I’d expect, whereas the Commons is really standing out. 
Now, for those of you who have been to Redmond, you’ll know that the Commons is kind of a retail space, there’s a lot of restaurants there, and so it’s kind of natural that there’s a lot of energy consumption there. And there’s not a lot of full-time employees. 
But Building 121 is definitely standing out. Building 121 is definitely an anomaly. So let me go drill into that and look at Building 121 versus, say, Building 34. And Building 34 has a similar size. I’m going to look at that by date. And it’s a similar size. And now I’m really finding an interesting insight. 
During the summer months, the energy consumption is about the same. But in winter, you see Building 121 is using a lot more energy. Well, it turns out that someone was running a furnace in Building 121 heating up the garage to the tune of $56,000 a month. Now, historically, the facilities team was not able to see this because they just assumed, hey, that’s the normal pattern for Building 121. When, in fact, once they were able to make this relative comparison, the true insight came out. And what’s great about this is it’s simply asking a question and getting an answer. It’s very interactive. 
Now, the last vignette I want to show you is around marketing. And at Microsoft, Bing is this amazing asset for us. It’s an incredible corpus of ambient intelligence. And one of the cool things with Power BI is I can create these questions that are kind of ready to go. So I can just click on it and it asks the question. 
In this case, I’m looking at Bing searches for phones by market and category. And the idea was, hey, if we look at what people are searching for, what category of phones and where, can we better tailor our marketing and advertising? And so you can see on this map, hey, here’s where low-end phones are being searched for. Here’s where high-end phones are going to be searched for. Very, very interesting and intuitive to help me with my marketing. 
But I may also want to understand when people are doing the marketing so I can better tune that in. So if I switch that today, I can start to see an interesting pattern, right? People are searching for phones during certain parts of the day. And maybe if I want to look at that by day of week, I’m now starting to see a pattern. OK, Wednesdays and Thursdays, people are searching. Saturdays and Sundays, not so much. 
What if I compare this to, say, phone activations? And instead of looking at it as a scatter plot, I want to look at it as a line chart. Now the real insight comes out. I can see how people are searching for our phones on Wednesdays and Thursdays, but they’re buying and activating over the weekend. 
So armed with that information, as well as an understanding of where people are searching from, I can better tailor my advertising to focus on Wednesday during the week, that’s when people are making the decisions, and then make sure that the right messages are landing in the right locations. 
So a great example of how we’re using the data culture at Microsoft to transform our business and really unlock the power of ambient intelligence. Thank you very much. Welcome, Satya.  
 Thank you, Eron. Hopefully, that gave you a good feel for how we at Microsoft are using this technology platform to change, fundamentally, the culture and how people approach their work. And as I said, it starts with that curiosity and questions that each one of us has. 
And the key technology breakthrough for us is how do we make it possible to use the tools that you use on a daily basis? Which is Office. And, yes, make the power of data just shine through. In fact, there’s some very amazing technology behind that PowerPoint presentation that had access to all that real estate data. There is a complex columnstore, which is powering all of that. So this is not about just some data in an Excel spreadsheet or a PowerPoint that goes with the PowerPoint or the spreadsheet. It is, in fact, a cloud service in this case that has all the data that’s available to the user all the time. 
But more important than that is how did this all come about? And, perhaps, that’s the story that we want to evangelize. That’s the story that we want to learn from ourselves and our customers’ experiences and really get on this improvement cycle. 
If you look out at — even that real estate example required IT development and end users to come together to create that. For example, there are over 2 million sensors inside of Microsoft, this is in the real estate facility. That’s just generating close to 500 million transactions per day. That’s all getting collected in a Hadoop system. Then a developer goes to work on it and reduces that using MapReduce into something that then can be loaded into a SQL analysis server, so that means that’s possible for you, then, as an end user to go in with something like Excel and create that semantic model that powers the Q & A feature. 
So the fact that at the end of the day, the end user wants to just be able to go to a SharePoint site and start asking questions. But behind that, you really had IT build the systems that could scale for the throughput required. You had developers work the entirety of the processing stream so that you could, in fact, take all that data and make it into a warehouse which then enabled a power user in Excel to be able to create a semantic model, which then enabled everyone inside of the organization to be able to have access to that Q & A feature. 
That notion of being able to empower individuals or teams and entire organizations, that was done by the coming together of IT development and end users, is a sensibility that we have in many other areas. And we want to bring that to the world of data. That means you have to take a first-class job of tooling. So even for developers, how do we take all of the developer APIs from Hadoop to SQL to be able to do things like sentiment analysis on streams of data and through ML techniques? All of that, how do we bring it together with Visual Studio is a very important problem, and we want to bring our best work there. 
How do we then have the systems which deal with a variety of different data, from the NoSQL databases to the SQL databases, to be able to do different kinds of processing, like MapReduce or real-time streaming? So those are the aspects of uniqueness that we bring, but bring it together with a cohesiveness of an architecture that brings all these things together. 
Now, the milestone for us today is that we have three new products that we’re announcing that make up part of our data platform. The first one is SQL Server 2014. This is a pretty breakthrough product for us in the industry. For the very first time, we have now in-memory technology built into every workload of SQL Server. So that means there is online transaction processing, or OLTP, now can take advantage of in-memory without changing your existing applications, and that’s a very key point for us. 
Second, it’s about the BI workload that has that compressed columnstore in memory that accelerates your ability to get analysis out of your system. And to be able to build out your data warehouses using in-memory technology. So we now have the technology in SQL Server that accelerates every workload by significant throughput, and we’ll talk more about that. 
The second service or the second product that we’re announcing today or launching today is the analytics platform system. Now, this, for the very first time, brings together the parallel data warehouse of SQL with a Hadoop region. So that means now you have the ability in one affordable appliance to be able to do queries across both of these. 
I mean, you can imagine the scenarios. You can imagine having data from your transactional system, your log information from your servers and websites, as well as social streams and the ability now to be able to query across all of this. There’s a piece of technology that David DeWitt and his team were fundamental contributors to called PolyBase, which is just amazing in terms of bringing the power of SQL language now to be able to span across Hadoop as well as regular SQL. And we think that that’s some breakthrough work, and that’s all part of this product. 
The last thing we’re also announcing today is a preview of a new IOT, or Internet of Things, service. It’s called the Azure Intelligent Systems Service. This makes it possible for you now to be able to collect data from all the sensors and servers, bringing that into the cloud so that you can take advantage of the rest of the data platform to be able to do the analysis, the machine learning, and so that is a service that I think will take out all of the friction that exists in being able to connect the cloud with the Internet of Things trend that is only going to increase. So we have an exciting set of customers and third-party ISVs who are already working with the service and learning from it. And so we’re very excited to have the preview launch today. 
So those are the three specific announcements. But we’ve been at work on a rapid pace because these three products join this full platform that we have around data. So as I said, it starts with the core capabilities of Office itself, with Excel, SharePoint and the Power BI service, which we launched just around six weeks ago. 
In Azure, we have all the storage systems and processing systems, from HDInsight, which is our Hadoop service, to the Azure databases, Azure storage, so these are the capabilities that are available in the cloud. 
But one of the other interesting aspects of Azure is every workload of SQL runs in the infrastructure as a service. In fact, it even gets better because you can take SQL 2014 and tier it with Azure. So in order to get something like high availability, which is a very, very important aspect for IT, you can in fact get that from Azure because you can have read-only secondaries and high-available configurations of SQL automatically tiered for you from your on-premises deployment. 
So we’re really not even thinking of these worlds of cloud and on-premises, private clouds as two different and distinct things. But it’s one integrated computing and storage fabric for customers. 
Lastly, we have SQL 2014 as well as the analytics platform system. So that describes the breadth of our data platform. But the thing that’s most important for us is the data culture. Because, in some sense, a lot of the technology that is there today and how we will evolve it is going to feed off of the feedback cycle. In some sense, we will feed off of the data that we get on what is the friction? How are people using these products to bring about that fundamental change with an organization so that they can get the data dividend? Because one of the things that is most latent in terms of value inside of an organization is the value that’s contained in the data. 
And the question is: How do you empower the people inside of the organization to be able to take full advantage of that and really reap the rewards? 
And so to talk more about that, I wanted to invite up on stage our chief operating officer, Kevin Turner, and have him take you through a lot of what our customers are doing in terms of data culture. Kevin?  
 Well, I’m privileged and humbled and honored to be here today to share some thoughts around these exciting announcements that we have for our business customers and enterprises around the world. So again it’s a real humbling honor.
It’s also exciting to hear Satya’s view and vision about ambient intelligence and ubiquitous computing. I think we’re all lined up as an organization to really harness the power and the value of that over the next few years. And today is a big step forward for us to be able to really move in that direction, and we’ve got some exciting things to share with you.
Before I start today, though, I do want to thank you and thank the customers in this room and the partners in this room for certainly making and taking the time, but also for your partnership. Many of the things and technologies and innovations that we’re going to share today have been developed with your feedback, with your input, and with you in mind, you at the center. 
And all those on the webcast, again a big, big thank you, because today is a big day for us, it’s a big day for us to really put some lines in the sand and make a big impact as it relates to really business intelligence and big data and being able to bring incredible insights to your business. 
So thank you for both customers and partners in the room — and certainly at any point in time my e-mail address is up there. If there’s anything I can do for you to help accelerate your insights in your data platform business, please let me know.
Now, one of the things that if you think about this idea of ubiquitous computing and ambient intelligence, when you think about sort of the beginning and the end of that, we see four trends that are really helping anchor and enable what we’ve talked about here today. And they’re certainly cloud, mobility, social and the fourth one, which is BI and big data that we’re going to talk about at length throughout this process and throughout the session today.
And cloud, that has been our fastest growing customer acceptance business in our company’s history. And as you all know and know well, we have three distinct types of cloud in private, hybrid and public. And you’re going to see us anchor a lot around the Azure cloud today, but specifically — and Office 365. And those are very important for us from a data intelligence perspective.
In the mobility space we’ve made some big announcements of recent times, talking about cross-platform as it relates to management with the new releases of System Center that we have in the market, as well as absolutely declaring that we’re going to have the best productivity solution around mobility is important for us as well, and the intended acquisition of Nokia, pending regulatory approval. We’re making big steps and big inroads to have great management, to have great productivity, and to have and create great devices.
In the social space, particularly for enterprises, we’ve seen a big push, both inside and outside the firewall, of being able to build a platform with SharePoint that allows you to integrate your favorite social tools, whether it’s Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, Google Plus, whatever it may be, into the platform and being able to bring that business intelligence is a key element and a foundational point of what we’re going to talk about today from a data standpoint.
But the real trend that we see today from an announcement standpoint that Satya talked about is how is Microsoft going to embrace BI and big data with our customers and with our partners, and that’s at the heart of what I want to talk to you about and what I want to share with you.
Now, when you think about what leading-edge companies are doing in this space, there’s a couple of things that really jump out, because what’s lost in the big data conversation is there’s tremendous value in data. And everybody knows data’s valuable, but how do you really extract the deep insights to be able to do that? 
And the enablers that we see certainly in the foundational pillars that we’ve built our data platform on is around the cloud, it is around reach. The ability to really connect with people regardless of where they are, the ability for customers to connect with companies, companies to connect with customers, to have great reach both inside and outside the firewall is a foundation for us. 
And every company in the world, including our own, wants to do things faster. How do we accelerate the pace and accelerate insights to be able to make great business decisions? And that’s at the heart of our data platform story.
Now, the thing that I want to also share with you today is we commissioned a report from IDC to really study hundreds of companies, to really see what could be the potential value of data in organizations. And it’s really about turning that data element into currency, because your data, our data, any data is actual currency that can be used to really exploit and improve customer service, speed to market, the ability to connect more deeply with customers, and is a very, very powerful thing in the world we all live in today.
And I think when you see by the end of this day your data has tremendous value and we’ve created some great tools and a platform that allows you to really extract that value and get the most from it.
So when you think about the opportunity that we have, the IDC report that we got that studied hundreds of companies said that this was a $1.6 trillion worldwide opportunity as it relates to companies being able to grow their business. So that’s a top-line number that IDC gave us.
And I also thought it would be interesting to say, because we have a lot of our customers and partners here, what would be the value and the potential value of the people just in this room that we have assembled here today, and that number is over $5.4 billion by IDC’s estimation. So as you can all see, there’s tremendous opportunity for us to really be able to take advantage of where we’re going to take the data dividend.
The other thing that we did, which we think is important, is when you look at the construct that Satya shared earlier today around this idea of having data, analytics and people at the center is a really important element for us to be able to share with you.
So when you think about our framework for how businesses are going to harness this business value and create great insight, it’s really with these three things in mind, because data comes in many shapes and sizes and structures, both structured and unstructured data, and that’s important for us.
Analytics, applied with learning, and the reasoning to bring order and intelligence from the data is something our platform delivers today. And then when you think about people, people at the center, as Satya said, is really important for us to ask more questions, harness their creativity and continue to extract tremendous value from that.
So we’ve created a formula, a formula that we think will be very useful for our customers and our partners to be able to bring great insight across business intelligence and harnessing big data.
The formula that we’ve got for really driving this data dividend is specifically around the data dividend formula. Let me go to it here. There it is.
The data dividend formula is data plus analytics plus people at speed. This is the simple formula that we’re really going to bring out our products, solutions and services today to be able to help companies and customers, as well as our partner network, be able to go in and create tremendous value from data. Let’s talk some specifics about that. 
On the data side what you’re really going to see from us to be able to realize the value from data is our data platform, and it starts first and foremost with SQL Server, and we’re going to talk about a new release and a new launch of that product.
But any type of data, both structured and unstructured, is important in our world. All sources of data within the walls and data from public data sources, both inside the firewall and outside the firewall, become more and more important for companies and customers to be able to really use and leverage.
The volumes of data, when you think about scaling from terabytes — and I was privileged to be really on the application development team that developed the largest industrialized commercial data warehouse in the world at one time, we were talking about terabytes. Today it’s about petabytes, because of the proliferation of devices and the cloud and the ability to really get at all of the data. So when you think about managing the data, we think that’s also a very interesting place for us to be.
But let me jump in on the data side, because when you think about any data, any volume, anywhere, there’s a few things that I want to pull out for this for you, because our strategy is really to process data where the data lives, in its native format. Any type of data and all sources of data, both within the firewalls and outside the firewalls, is a really important element for you to think through. 
All volumes of data scaling up to petabytes again is a very important element for us, and then being able to manage all of the data requires a platform that can connect to the data anywhere, wherever the work occurs. And we’re delivering these capabilities with this new release of SQL Server and Microsoft Azure.
When you think about two elements that enterprises really want to make sure when they make an investment is it secure and can it scale. And we have some very important news to share with you today, because for the last five years in a row the least vulnerable database, according to the National Institutes of Standards and Technology, has been Microsoft SQL Server. And as you can see, two of those years, in 2013 and 2010, we had zero vulnerabilities reported.
So we’re going to continue to invest, as we have for more than 13 years, in Trustworthy Computing and having a great, safe and secure platform. We’re not declaring victory on security, we’re simply actually sharing with you the results from a vulnerability perspective of where our platform fits relative to our competition. We know that this is an important element for our customers and for our partners.
The second area is the growth in SQL Server has been unprecedented. From a revenue and a unit share growth we now have 45 percent market share, and it’s the most widely deployed database in the world. So we have scale and we’re certainly very committed to security.
And we’re not resting on our laurels, because there’s a couple of things you’re going to hear about today that I’ll tee up that I think are also very important.
Transparent data encryption capabilities are becoming even more important in multi-tenant environments like cloud. And we have a feature called the Encryption Key Management which allows you to store your encryption keys on a separate server than the one running on SQL Server, and instance that for greater security. So we’re going to continue to create incredible, safe, secure and tremendous value for you as it relates to these two elements.
The other area I would talk about is analytics. In the analytics space it’s really about a couple of new announcements that we’ve got starting with the analytics platform system. I talked about the foundational area of being SQL, but in partnership with Hortonworks we’ve also delivered a solution for non-relational data, Hortonworks HDP on Windows, on-premises and Azure HDInsight in the cloud.
With APS, as we affectionately call our Application Platform System, you can now connect to big data on-premises, big data in the cloud, and now big data on the appliance with a Hadoop region.
Now, with the PolyBase in our Application Platform System we make analyzing all of your forms of data very, very easy for you. 
And so when you think about this opportunity with analytics I think it’s a really important thing for you to think through, because we’re very committed to this for the long term. With this Analytics Platform System we’re going to really work hard to give you the analytics platform and tools that you need to harness the power of your data. 
So you’re going to hear, and Quentin’s going to come out and take you through some very specific details, but we’re very proud to be able to offer these capabilities around analytics across our three distinct types of clouds that we have, which are private, hybrid and public.
The other part about analytics that I’ll touch on around the Analytics Platform System is the ability to really go deeply as it relates to the appliance area. And we’ve got great partners with HP and Dell that are helping us make the appliance, but the ability to scale out up to petabytes of data, have that in-memory column store for 100x speed improvement, dedicated regions for Hadoop, as well as joining relational and non-relational data with our PolyBase is very, very exciting and compelling, and we think it’s market-leading as it relates to what’s available in the marketplace.
The second area on analytics I’d touch on has to do with the Microsoft Azure HDInsight. Now, the HDInsight is our managed Hadoop-based service that brings 100 percent Apache Hadoop solution to the cloud. And it actually allows you to quickly create a Hadoop cluster scaled to fit your demand, leading to cost savings only possible and available through the cloud.
Now, with HDInsight you can seamlessly store and process data of all types using Azure store, and it’s integrated with System Center and Active Directory, which helps bring you enterprise security and manageability with Hadoop. And so you can really use this to analyze Hadoop data with the Microsoft business intelligence tools, thanks to the integration with Excel and our Power BI application.
The third area I’d talk about is really people at the center, because as mentioned earlier, Excel is now the most ubiquitous business intelligence tool in the world, with over a billion people using it, which is very exciting for us, and it only continues to get better. And making our Office product, including Excel, as Satya said, more data aware is a very important element in our business intelligence strategy.
Now, the new capabilities in Excel include the ability to easily discover and explore and connect and transform data from new data sources. That’s really important for us, because we want to easily merge internal and external data, and manage billions of rows across data in Excel. We also have some incredible visualization technology, which Eron showed just before I came on, and again we’re going to continue to make that even richer as we go forward.
And with the adoption of Power BI and the capabilities we’ve got using Office 365 we believe that end users can better collaborate and share insights, and the users can share datasets, report insights and build off one another’s insights with various BI sites and capability that we have built-in.
So the ability to really make insights more accessible with natural language search, inspiring more curiosity within your workforce, is something that we aim and aspire to have with our BI and big data story and our data platform.
And as a service delivered on Office 365 we’re going to continue to reduce the friction for you around the deployment and adoption of these tools. But by enabling people with insights anywhere for you and your company we’re providing you with the tools you need to increase the value of your data dividend.
The other part of this has to do with speed. And today, with the technology and innovation breakthroughs that the team has been able to accomplish, we have some incredible announcements around the speed for our in-memory computing that we’re going to deliver in SQL 2014.
Now, when you think about this opportunity, we see it across the — we aspire and aim to have the best price performance database and data platform in the world. 
But let’s talk about what we’re actually building from an in-memory perspective, because in-memory gives us a lot of capabilities, because it gives you the ability to work with billions of rows in Excel, it gives you the ability to scale to large-scale analytics and do it in a very simplistic fashion. It also gives you the ability to have over 100x query performance for faster operational reporting and data warehousing. And the lastly I would tell you we’ve seen a 30x improvement as it relates for transaction processing through OLTP, very exciting for us.
So how are we delivering these technologies, which is also unique? You can use your existing skills on our platform, and you gain the full benefits of the SQL Server capabilities. 
The other thing that I would tell you is to take advantage of in-memory on the Microsoft platform you do not have to rewrite your applications and you don’t need an expensive specialty piece of hardware. We’re actually building it and embedding it into the product.
And only Microsoft is delivering built-in, in-memory across the entire data platform. It’s a big competitive advantage for us that will bring our customers, you and our partners tremendous value in the marketplace.
The other thing I’d tell you when you think about the opportunity that we have is this 30x performance that we are getting with our Online Transaction Processing gives us the ability to dramatically improve speed at which you’re able to find, use, share and access data.
And when you look across our entire data platform, when you start across the ability to have what SQL Server does for us, it gives us the price performance that we need that’s market leading, it gives us incredible compression metrics so that you can actually reduce your storage costs, it gives us latency improvements, and it gives us the 30x OLTP transaction processing speed. That is an incredible value-add that we’re bringing to our marketplace with our customers and our partners.
And I think if you think about the opportunity to see that customers now will not only be able to scale up what they’ve got in a relational world but also in the unstructured world, we think that will really unlock future business scenarios that maybe haven’t even been thought about today. The ability for employees to ask any question is something that we think is absolutely driving to a competitive advantage.
So when you think about this opportunity of data, analytics, people and speed, you can do one of these elements and obtain incremental improvement, and good and solid improvement. If you do all of these elements, we actually see it as a game-changer. The ability for you to really change the game, getting into predictive analytics, getting into the ability to unlock and let your employees use self-service business intelligence tools that they’ve grown up with, to be able to ask any question, both inside and outside the firewall, from a data standpoint, the power of that to transform a business we think has never been greater than it is today.
And one of the good customers that we’ve worked with came to us and said, “Hey, look, we don’t have small data requirements.” In fact, they actually have — one of their database tables has over a quintillion rows in that particular database. So we’re not talking about terabytes and petabytes, we’re talking about an unbelievable amount of data. In fact, this particular customer, NASDAQ, actually accumulates more structured data in one day than most companies have in totality. So the ability to really work with them and create across a quintillion rows give them something that they’ve never had before is something we’ve done with SQL Server 2014, and it’s very, very impactful and we think that it’s going to only continue to get more and more pervasive.
So we’ve got this technology deployed in a mission-critical world, and we’re very excited about that, because we’ve had a heck of a year on our consumer and enterprise group at Microsoft from an innovation perspective. Just like NASDAQ, it’s great to see customers transforming their businesses and realizing data dividends, because when you think about the opportunity we have to be able to come back with incredible innovation around Power BI for Office 365, SQL Server 2014, Microsoft Azure, it’s an incredible year of innovation that we’ve been able to have and one that we’re going to continue to do that.
Excel being the most widely deployed BI tool on the planet, SQL Server being the most widely deployed database in the enterprise world with double-digit growth, and the ability to now have over a million databases stored on Azure give us an incredibly strong platform on which to build and talk to you about from an innovation perspective.
And when you think about what Satya teed up about driving for ambient intelligence and how over the next few years the ability to have intelligence just like the air around us and how powerful that can be, we really want to work closely with our customers and our partners to help you take your data, take it and turn it into information, the information becomes insights, and then more importantly the insights drive strategic decisions. That’s really at the heart of where the Microsoft data platform strategy is today, and we’re very excited and humbled to be able to bring these great products and services and solutions to the marketplace for you. This is not a road map discussion or a road map presentation for you today, it is actually what we’re delivering in the marketplace with customers and with our valued partner network.
Now, when you think about some of the opportunities that we’ve got, Quentin Clark’s going to come out and he’s going to walk you through some very detailed aspects of our platform in more detail. 
But before Quentin does that, I would like to share a story of Warner Bros., one of our very good customers, and what they’ve been able to do by integrating data and providing a rich, immersive experience. And Warner Bros. is increasing their data dividend, and you will see that in a moment.
And so as I exit, let me also end where I began, which is thank you very much for your time, thank you for your attendance, and certainly and more importantly thank you for your partnership. We look forward to working closely with you and we’re ready to get started with you to help you maximize your data dividend across your platform.
 Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome to the stage Microsoft Corporate Vice President Brad Anderson. 
  Good morning. Thank you. Thank you, and welcome. You know, for the tens of thousands who are watching this live right now, and the hundreds of thousands who are going to watch us over the coming weeks, we are so grateful that you would choose to spend this time with us. 
You know, it’s a time of so much change in the industry. It’s happening at an ever-accelerating pace. 
We’re certainly seeing this at Microsoft. As you’re aware, you’ve had some changes recently. And I can’t even tell you the amount of excitement and energy inside the company right now as we move to Satya and his leadership. You know, many of you know for the last few years, I reported directly to Satya and had a chance to work with him. I’ll tell you, there is no better leader, there is no better human being on the face of the earth. He’s truly a remarkable individual that we’re excited about. 
And at Microsoft, you know, we’re heavily engaged in building out how we’re going to deliver innovation to you over the next 10 to 15 years. 
Before we go into that, let’s kind of reflect back a little on the last 10 to 15 years. And think about what we’ve seen is this explosion of these connected and intelligent devices, all connected to the cloud. 
You know, 15 years ago, we started to see this explosion of PCs. And over the last 15 years, we’ve seen billions of new PCs deployed and connected. 
Cell phones, smart, intelligent devices we carry in our pockets. Billions deployed over the last 15 years. And it’s really interesting, in 2008, we actually hit a fascinating point in history where there were actually more intelligent, connected devices in the world than there were human beings. 
Now, we’re at this hyper scale of growth where we were seeing the number of devices being deployed around the world growing at a rate we’ve never seen before. And depending upon whose analysis you look at, by 2020, we’re going to have trillions of these devices that are alive, connected, sending data to the cloud that we’re going to be able to operate on top of. 
So this right here is the world that we live in. We’re going to be living in a world where computing will truly ubiquitous. And it’s going to be all around us. And the amount of innovation, the amount of learning and the amount of knowledge that we’re going to be able to have at our fingertips will truly be amazing. 
So what we’re seeing is a growing number of users using a growing number of connected devices using a growing number of applications. All this is just creating data. Data in amounts that in the past was just completely unimaginable. 
And as you think about how we’re going to use that data and how we’re going to bring it together, merge it, and pull those insights out. The cloud is going to be core to everything that we do. 
So our world view is that the enterprises of today are going to live in an ever-connected world that’s going to be highly dependent on the cloud. And you have this intersection where mobility comes together with the cloud, where the transformational changes and the transformation innovation is going to occur. And I think right now we’re just barely beginning to scratch the surface of what the possibilities are. 
Now, Microsoft, again, we’re working hard to make sure that we understand how we’re going to change so we can help all of you change as well. 
And I wanted to give you some insights into some of the most technical leaders at the company, individuals whom I admire and how they see the world evolving specifically for you in the enterprise and the possibility that’s going to unlock. 
 I love that statement at the end: If you don’t dream, we won’t go anywhere. So, ladies and gentlemen, let’s dream. Let’s dream big and let’s imagine what’s possible as we bring all of this capacity and all of this opportunity together. 
So our view, again, mobile in a cloud world. And as we think about this, we are here to help you build enterprises that are mobile first and cloud first. 
I know what many of you are thinking: How can there be two firsts? Well, the reality is, they’re one in the same. You know, you really cannot have a cloud without connected devices and vice versa. In fact, if you think about it, a cloud without intelligent devices connected to it is nothing more than untapped potential. 
And as you think about the connected devices, again, without that cloud, all that you have is potential that goes untapped. 
So let’s now think about how we can work together and build that enterprise that is based upon mobile first and cloud first. 
And if you think about Microsoft’s history, for all of our time, we really have been focused on how we can bring IT professionals, developers, and end users together. So what I literally hope to accomplish today is to walk you through the innovations that we’re doing that bring these audiences or bring these groups of people together, as well as the things that we’re doing that help every one of these audiences, IT professionals, developers, and end users get great value from the cloud. 
Now, in this mobile-first, cloud-first world, you don’t have to move everything that you do to the public cloud to get value. But I tell you, the public cloud can bring value to everything you do. And that’s the point that I want to make throughout the morning and prove to you as we go forward on this. 
So let’s start with the IT professional. When you think about it, all of what we’re talking about here is based upon having that incredibly scalable and resilient and cost-effective infrastructure that all of these applications that are users are going to use is hosted on. 
So for the IT professionals of the world, you literally are at the center of this transformation. 
Now, if you think about what we want to do here to help you build these mobile-first, cloud-first enterprises, for the vast majority of you, you’re representatives of enterprises who are going to be consuming a combination of private, hosted, and public cloud as we go forward. 
What I would encourage you to do as you want to drive and build this cloud culture inside of your organization is to no longer think about these as separate, but literally think about the public cloud as a part of your data center. 
So I would submit, the cloud is integral to your data center from this point forward. And the cloud is going to deliver things to you and enable you to do things you’ve never been able to deliver to your customers and to your end users in the past. 
So let’s now talk about what we’re going to do there. And to begin with, I want to make one specific point because the organization that you choose to be your public cloud partner is one of the most critical and important decisions you’re going to make on this journey. And as you’re considering who your partner is going to be in the public cloud, there are three attributes, three sets of capabilities that I would suggest you require of your public cloud provider. 
Let me tell you why I think these are important. First is hyper scale. You want the partner with the public cloud provider that is literally deploying hundreds of thousands of servers per year, that is going through incredible growth. And, ladies and gentlemen, there are only three organizations in the world that are operating at this kind of hyper scale. Microsoft is one of them. 
And the reason I think this is important is that kind of scale drives innovation. It drives the most innovation on the planet in terms of the infrastructure. And so looking at that public cloud or looking at that partner, you want to partner with the organizations that, personally, are going through all the innovation as they just try to survive the incredible growth that’s happening, because that’s going to be important to you in the future. 
You want a public cloud provider that literally has enterprise capabilities and enterprise-grade cloud. An organization that is willing, able, and is backing its SLAs financially. You know, we have so much confidence in our public cloud that we back it financially. If we don’t deliver on our SLA, you don’t pay us. 
And if you think about how this moves forward and you think about the regulatory laws and the things that we’re going to have to deal with from a data sovereignty perspective, an organization that understands the enterprise and understands those needs will build those capabilities natively into the public cloud, that’s why enterprise grade is so successful or so important. Microsoft stands alone in this place in my opinion. 
And, finally, you want an organization from a public cloud perspective that believes in and is delivering hybrid cloud capabilities. You want that ability to be able to build an application on any cloud, deploy in any cloud. You don’t want to be locked in, you have to have that flexibility. 
This is also how all that innovation that’s occurring in the public cloud with these hyper-scale organizations can get delivered down to you to use in your data center is through these hybrid cloud scenarios. 
I submit that if you take a look at these three requirements and ask yourself which public cloud provider operates at hyper scale, is enterprise grade, and believes and is delivering hybrid capabilities, Microsoft stands alone. And we want to be your partner as we do this. 
I’m just going to give you a couple of quick examples of some organizations that are using us in some hybrid scenarios. 
Walsh, a very large U.S. construction firm, is using Active Directory and Azure Active Directory in a common identity across its private cloud, extending out into the public cloud in very unique ways. 
Paul Smith, just an iconic fashion brand, is using a combination of private cloud, but also attaching to Azure. In fact, they have deployed a private cloud on Microsoft’s Cloud OS and they’ve seen a 200 percent increase in their density, and they’ve actually been able to decrease their disaster recovery time for their most mission-critical applications from 48 hours to five minutes using the disaster recovery capabilities that we deliver in our hybrid cloud solutions. 
Two other examples. NBC Olympics with their broadcast of the Sochi Olympics chose to host all of their streaming and encoding on top of Azure. Literally broke every record in the books about the number of individual authenticated users around the world watching an athletic event during those 17 days. Over 100 million authenticated users viewing high-definition streaming. 
Fascinating case study here where you’ve got an organization that has invested billions of dollars that has to make that up and get a return in 17 days. And they chose to do that on top of Azure. 
And Blinkbox. This is an incredibly innovative video streaming organization in the U.K. that is in a pay-as-you-go model. Last year, they grew 245 percent. 245 percent growth in a single year. So as they were expanding and getting too big for their data center, they made the decision to move to Azure. They now have more than a petabyte of data stored in Azure, streaming that to their subscribers and the individuals who are coming up and consuming that content all based on Azure and growing and growing. 
Now, one last organization I want to mention. And I think one of the most innovative things that I’ve seen this year in terms of an organization that stepped back and said, “What could we do if we literally had unlimited computing power? How could we change our industry? How could we deliver the world’s best game?” 
So I would ask you, in your business, what could you do if you had unlimited computing power? Let me show you what Respawn did with “Titanfall.” Let’s take a view. 
 Talk about a company changing the game. No pun intended. 
You know, just a phenomenal example of a hybrid scenario, and probably an application you wouldn’t even think about. But I can tell you, day one, when this went live, it was such an exciting day at Microsoft as we all came in and we saw that there were well over 100,000 virtual machines up and running around the globe supporting “Titanfall.” And then as the game became available on other platforms, you know, just boom. You see the number of VMs accelerate up and grow. 
You’re talking about an organization here of less than 150 employees that now has hundreds of thousands of VMs running around the world supporting gaming in a way never before imagined. 
I’ll tell you, one of the most interesting things we heard on day one was there was a sickness that swept the world called “Titan flu” and a lot of people were calling in sick that day. My boys included. 
So let’s talk a little bit about the infrastructure, about the cloud. First of all, it all begins with what we do in Azure. In Azure, we have 16 different regions. You know, the amount of growth is unbelievable. We are deploying a new core every five seconds around the globe. 
And then we use this platform to host services like Azure Active Directory. The last several months, Azure Active Directory is servicing 2 billion authentications a day. A day. Two billion authentications as organizations are embracing the cloud and embracing Azure Active Directory for their authentication. 
Then we take everything that we learned and everything that we do inside of Azure and we bring it out to all of you to run in your data centers. And we start seeing these Azure-compatible and Azure-consistent clouds being built around the globe. 
Right here, you see a view of just the 20 partners that are a part of the Cloud OS network, but we have service-provider partners around the globe, again, building these clouds that are consistent and compatible with Azure. 
And then if you look at any enterprise data center, the foundation of all those data centers around the globe is Windows Server. So literally what you see happening right here is you see a network of compatible clouds being built in private, in hosted, and in the public cloud. And this is important to you because you are not locked in. You have that flexibility to move, to adjust, to expand, to grow, to shrink. You have the flexibility to respond to the needs of the business in a way that’s never been before possible. 
That’s why it’s so important that we continue to deliver on our promise of consistency across clouds to give you that kind of flexibility. 
Now, what I wanted to give you a view here, and we’re going to spend quite a bit of time in this section, is I wanted to give you a view of the work that we’re doing to help you embrace the cloud in these hybrid scenarios. 
So I want to walk through the things that we’ve been doing in terms of infrastructure applications and then disaster recovery that help you to connect to the cloud and run in these hybrid environments to get that value that we’ve been talking about. 
Let’s start with infrastructure. First thing I would call your attention to is just look at the list of capabilities that are available that allow you to make Azure a part of your data center. You know, things like the work that we’ve done around Azure Active Directory and allowing you to expand out to the cloud. A little bit later, we’re going to cover this new set of capabilities that we call the cloud app discovery preview and show you the amazing power that’s going to bring to you as you get to understand the cloud apps that your users are using. 
From a compute standpoint, you know, our IaaS is 100 percent compatible across the different cloud places — private, hosted, and virtual. And today, we’re announcing what we call “compute-intensive VMs.” More memory, more virtual machines. This gives you the capability to have a 40GB InfiniBand access with RDMA within region and across region in Azure. Enabling you to build out these high-performance, high-scale applications. 
As we think about networking, you know, one of the most common requests we have from organizations that are really embracing the cloud in big ways is they want to have dedicated links that are high speed because they’re moving so much information back and forth between their clouds. 
So today we’re announcing the general availability of what we call ExpressRoute. And ExpressRoute allows you to establish that dedicated connection, and we’ve done this in partnership with a number of telecom organizations around the world. So AT&T, Verizon, BT, Equinix, Syntel, Telecity, and Zadara. 
And one of the things that differentiates what we’ve done from others in the market is you can just add us to your existing MPLS contract or your MPLS WAN and we’re also redundant. Literally, we provision two circuits with every single connection so you have that redundancy for this high-connection, dedicated pipe that you have. 
And on storage, much of the innovation that we’re doing in Azure is coming in the place of storage, where inside of Azure, we run just direct attach spinning media. Literally, the lowest-cost storage that we can find. And then we use software to deliver on the high-availability and the resiliency that is needed and is required. 
You know, last year we talked about StorSimple. I will tell you, StorSimple and that ability to be able to use Azure as a tier for your files, one of the most successful acquisitions in the history of the company. It’s just been amazing to be a part of that. 
Today, we’re also announcing the preview of what we call Azure Files. So think of now having a shared and common storage in Azure with an SMB protocol head to it that all your VMs in Azure, all the applications that you’re writing, can now use in a shared manner. Going into preview today that you can start to take advantage of. 
So innovation in a hybrid environment across identity, compute, network and storage. 
Let’s talk a little bit here about applications for a minute and some of the work that we’re doing from an application standpoint. First of all, applications always require a database. And some of the innovation that we’ve done in the new version of SQL, SQL 2014, are nothing short of remarkable. With the in-memory capabilities that we released a month ago, we are seeing a 30x increase in performance without rewriting your application on the exact same hardware. 
You know, 30x I don’t think sounds anywhere near as impressive as when you say a 3,000 percent increase in the performance of your application. Okay? Amazing technology in SQL. 
Two things I want to talk about really quick, and then give you a demonstration of one of them. We’re announcing today going into preview Azure Cache. So literally think about having an in-memory, distributed managed cache that helps you to build these highly performant and highly scalable and responsive applications. 
This is now included in Azure, and we’ve built this on the open source work that’s been done around read as cache. 
Also, we’re putting into preview something that we call SLA Management. Imagine now being able to take the capabilities you have in your data center or in the public cloud, building an API on that, and then exposing the capabilities that you have running in your data center out to your partners and out to your customers in a controlled manner. 
That’s what API Management allows us to do, and it now allows us to unlock the value that we’ve been building in our data centers for years and share that. And now in collaboration with our partners and customers, build these incredible applications that can now cross the boundaries of our clouds. This is something I think is important for you to see. 
So what I’d like to do is now give you a view of what we’re putting into preview in API Management from Microsoft Azure, please welcome Josh to the stage. Thanks, Josh.  
 Thanks, Brad. Thanks. 
One of our launch customers for Azure API Management is Wellmark Blue Cross and Blue Shield. Wellmark are a mutual insurance that serves 2 million members, and a part of a trusted national network that serve over 100 million people in the U.S. 
We worked with them on a business problem. They wanted to make it easy for their corporate customers to integrate Wellmark’s data and services into their own employee-facing experiences. This is the best experience for Wellmark’s members because they can find a provider, agent or dentist in their existing employee portal. 
Let me show you how our solution, Azure API Management, can help you manage an API program. 
What I want to start with is Wellmark’s partner-facing developer portal. This is where partners come to learn and find how to use Wellmark’s APIs, and the entire experience is powered by Azure API Management. 
Notice how it can be themed to exactly match their brand. And the documentation here that we can see that actually helps developers to learn how to use the API is dynamically generated by API definitions stored in the API Management system. 
Oh, and for developers in the room, actually, if you want to know how to call this API, then we can even generate code samples for you. So if you want to know how to call this from a Ruby back end, just click this button, and there’s the code you need to invoke this API. 
So all of this comes together to create a great experience for Wellmarks’ partners when they need to integrate into their solution. 
Now, as an IT professional, I need to manage this API program. So let me show you our publisher experience. And this is where IT professionals can securely publish APIs of their choosing. 
So here’s the finder API that we were just looking at. And as I drill through the options, you’ll see sort of the powerful configuration and data available. As I drill into a particular operation, let me give you one example of some of the cool stuff you can do here. 
So with just a click of a checkbox, I can enable caching. And that’s going to improve the performance, reduce the response time, and reduce the load on the back end. 
Now, as an IT manager, I may be concerned about how I protect my API. Let me show you how we have you covered with our powerful policy configuration system. 
So go to policies here. What we’re going to do now is apply a policy that adds a rate limit for the API. Policies allow me to change the behavior of the API easily, and we have a vast list of policy statements to choose from. From format conversion between XML and JSON, all the way up to quote enforcement. 
And the one we’re going to apply now — so we’re going to choose a product here. I’m going to add a policy, and I’m going to drop in the limit call rate policy. So here it is. I’m just going to configure this now. And what it’s going to do is limit the number of calls coming from a given partner. So let’s say three within a 60-second period. You can choose any values you like. I hit save. And that’s pushed out now to our API proxies. 
So to show you that interaction, I want to switch back to the developer portal and show you my favorite feature of the portal. So I’m going to find the provider by ZIP API, and I’m going to introduce you to our developer console. 
This is an interactive console that, again, is generated by the API Management platform that allows partners to learn how the API works by interacting with it in real time. 
So here I’m going to enter a ZIP code, 50316. I’m going to choose a subscription key which identifies me as a developer. And then I’m going to hit “get.” And that’s going to invoke the real API straight away. So there we go. We see we got an okay response. I can see all the headers and a beautiful list of providers that are available to me. 
Now, you remember that just a few seconds ago we implemented rate limiting on this API. So if I hit this just a few more times, let’s give it a couple of hits. We’ll see that we get a different response on the fourth request. And there we go, here’s a different response now. It says, “Too many requests.” And if I move down a little bit, let me zoom out here. If I scroll down, we’ll see that we get some more data on that. It says rate limit is exceeded, try again in 38 seconds. All done with just a click of configuration. 
Now, as an IT professional who’s managing and challenged with managing this API program, I need insights into trends, usage, and health of my API. Let me show you how we have you covered with our analytics. 
So I’m going to click over on analytics here. I’m going to get an at-a-glance view of activity on the API with details of errors, calls, response time. I can see the developers organized by successful calls, bandwidth and more. 
Or I can drill in for even more usage details where I can see calls on a separate graph and bandwidth — geographical distribution of where these calls are coming from. So let’s click on the U.S.A. And we’ll see a state-by-state view. 
So what we’ve shown is how Azure API Management can help you protect an API, get insights into your API program, and also have an awesome developer portal that makes it easy for your partners to integrate. 
This is available today in the Azure portal. So we challenge you to find how you can unlock the value in your data and services in your business. Thanks.  
 Thank you, Josh. 
So just a recap. You saw now how we can actually take things that we’ve learned in Azure, but apply it to your data centers. And you’re going to hear this theme throughout the day of how do we help you unlock the information and the data and the capacity and the knowledge that resides in you organization, resides in your data center? And using API Management, you can certainly do that. 
Okay, so let’s move on to the third area I wanted to talk about in terms of a hybrid architecture as we embrace this cloud culture. 
Let’s talk about disaster recovery for a minute and business continuity. So first of all, you know, with SQL 2014, we released a set of capabilities that we call Always On that gives you that ability to keep a spare copy that’s fully replicated and synchronized in the cloud with SQL. 
Today, we’re announcing a couple of things I think are really intriguing and actually are very relevant as it’s actually one of the No. 1 things we hear from all of you in terms of requests. 
First of all, we’re introducing anti-malware now into Azure. So you can use the Microsoft anti-malware capabilities. Thank you. You can use these anti-malware capabilities to protect your VMs as well as protect the Azure applications that you’re building. 
We’re also announcing in conjunction with Trend Micro and Symantec, we’re introducing additional security offerings and capabilities into Azure. 
The other thing we’re announcing is what we call encrypted storage for Office 365. And you’re going to love what this does. As you embrace Office 365 and you start to use OneDrive for business, what this provides is the ability to actually have every single file that is stored in OneDrive for business encrypted with its own key. 
So driving additional security and additional confidence as you embrace these cloud services that you know that your content, that you know the assets of your company are safe and secure. 
Finally, I want to talk about what we call Azure Site Recovery. Formerly, we called this Hyper-V Replication Manager. What this provides is the ability for you to set up disaster recovery capabilities. Now we’re adding it into preview, this will be coming in June, the ability to have Azure be your location where you actually store the copy for disaster recovery. This is the No. 1 request that we’ve heard from organizations that are using Hyper-V Replication Manager today. 
And with this, you have the ability for you to now have a complete disaster recovery solution with the ability to seamlessly fail over in an unplanned or planned manner to Azure. 
And one of the things that really differentiates what we’ve done from anybody else in the market is it’s drop-dead simple. You can take this and apply it to all of your workloads and your services in your data center. You know, historically, disaster recovery has been something that’s been reserved for only the most mission-critical applications for most organizations because it’s too expensive and it’s too difficult. 
You’re going to see here in a minute the simplicity of this. And I would encourage you, let’s have disaster recovery for every one of the offerings in our company. Every one of the offerings that your users and your customers are using. 
And, finally, with the incredible automation capabilities that we have, Azure is able to monitor the health of your virtual machines. And when it detects something is wrong, automatically launch a set of instructions and automation to conduct that failover. Okay? You want take a look at it? Okay. So do me a favor and welcome Matt. He’s going to give you a view of site recovery with Microsoft Azure. Welcome, Matt.  
 Good morning. Good morning! There we go. 
Back in January, we announced the general availability of Hyper-V Recovery Manager, a Microsoft Azure-based solution that enables you to protect your core workloads and applications by orchestrating the replication and recovery of your on-premises private cloud to a secondary location. 
But what if you don’t have a secondary location? Well, today I’m pleased to give you the very first look at a new capability we’re bringing to Microsoft Azure Site Recovery, specifically, replication and recovery of your on-premises private clouds into the Microsoft Azure data centers. Let’s take a look. 
What we have on the screen here is a site recovery dashboard. And on the usage overview, you’ll see we’re not only protecting a number of Contoso VMs between our on-premises locations, we’re protecting a greater number of VMs into the Microsoft Azure data centers. 
If we drill into protected items here, you’ll see we’ve got a number of protected clouds, all existing on premises, managed by System Center. And what you’ll notice on the right-hand side is four of them are already being replicated and recoverable into Microsoft Azure. 
If we drill into the production cloud here, you’ll see we’re protecting a number of our key workloads: Active Directory, file servers, applications, SQL Servers — all centrally configured for replication and recovery using site recovery. You’ll notice on the right, they’re ready for failover in the event the need arises. 
Now, let’s take a look at the configuration of this cloud. And you’ll see the target is Microsoft Azure. And if we scroll down, you’ll see some of the granular and flexible features that our customers and IT pros have asked for with replication intervals down to every 30 seconds, five minutes, or 15 minutes. Up to 15 additional recovery points and integration with app-consistent DSS-aware snapshots. 
You’ll also notice if we zoom in here, support for encryption at rest, ensuring you can meet your regulatory and compliance requirements. 
Now, that’s great that we’re replicating our VMs. But one of the most complex parts of configuring a DR plan is networking. Fortunately, site recovery makes it easy. 
We’ll click on resources. And we’ll see we’re in the networks view here. I’ll select my on-premises location that I want to map my networks from and choose my target location, in this case Azure, where I’d like to map my networks to. 
And you’ll see, I’ve got a number of on-premises networks mapped to some pre-created Azure virtual networks. And we just need to map the very last one that I’ve created in advance. I’m going to select map, choose my target network in Azure for my marketing network, in this case marketing DR. And this ensures that when VMs fail over, they’re failing over and they’re able to connect as you’d expect. So we’ll okay that. And that’ll take a few minutes in the background. 
And we talked about replication and recovery. And we’ve talked about mapping our networks. But how do we ensure that in the event of a failover our VMs fail over in an orchestrated and controlled way? Because the last thing we want in the event of an outage is to bring your VMs online one by one manually. 
And that’s where recovery plans come in. If we have a look at our recovery plans here, you’ll see we’ve got a couple. One that relates to our on-premises replication and recovery, and another that’s focused on recovery into Azure. 
And I’ll click on this one here. And you’ll see it’s a series of orchestrated steps executed in a particular order. In the event of a planned failover where our primary site is still online, we’ll first shut the VMs down cleanly, replicate the delta changes, and then we’ll start the failover. 
And you’ll see, we’re executing in groups here. First, our AD, Active Directory domain control, then our file servers, then our SQL Servers that rely on those files servers to be online. And then we get our line-of-business apps coming online. Apps, Web service, line-of-business apps. Because these are important and critical to our operations, I’ve actually injected after that group what’s known as a manual action. 
In this case, if we bring up that view, you’ll see it’s actually asking somebody to physically do something. In this case, the line-of-business owner is going to log in, check that his app is working. And then as soon as he’s happy with it, he can click okay and the recovery plan will continue from there. 
Let’s close that out and we’ll see our final virtual machine be brought online. You’ll see here if I zoom in, it’s not only Windows, it’s Linux-based virtual machines as well. And then last, and in many cases least, our marketing virtual machine. 
Now, if we back out of there, you’ll see it’s incredibly easy to configure. But how do we initiate a failover? Well, before I initiate, it’s important that we test. And you’ll see down here, we provide support for testing because you want to know that your DR and your recovery plans execute as expected. And it doesn’t impact your primary site, and best of all, you can test as much as you need to. 
Now, to initiate a failover, I’ll select failover. I’ll choose planned because our primary site is still online in this case. Now, before I execute, because this is a cloud service displayed in a rich HTML5 interface, I could be accessing this from my PC, my tablet, my smartphone, or even my Xbox One. Whatever is convenient. 
And to initiate failover, I simply click. And that is the power of Microsoft Azure site recovery. And with that, I’ll hand back to Brad. Thank you.  
 Just awesome stuff. You know, again, taking disaster recovery and being able to apply it to every single one of your workloads. And this capability, again, to be able to use Azure as your disaster recovery zone will be in preview in June. 
I’m going to tell you a couple of anecdotes about this. One of the wonderful things about operating these cloud services is we get the telemetry back and we can see what’s worked and not worked and we can refine and improve. And it’s one of those things that is just incredibly rewarding. Weekly, I get a chance to go dive through all this telemetry and I take a look where anywhere between 3 to 5 percent of all the VMs around the world that are being protected with these capabilities have failed over. 
And every week when I see those statistics and I see there’s been 100 percent success, I’ve got to say, I’m just filled with joy as I think about the value that we’re bringing to organizations around the world. 
Okay, so we’ve been talking a lot about kind of maybe the cloud side of pieces. Let’s talk a little bit about the mobile side of the pieces now for a little bit. 
And just like I made the statement about the cloud being integral to your data center, ladies and gentlemen, the cloud is going to be integral to all your enterprise mobility solutions as you move forward. These devices that every one of us bring into the office every single day, you know, we have these devices, they’re lit up and they’re made alive with all the applications that we download onto them, they’re personalized, they really become an extension of who we are. 
And then every one of us comes into the office with these personal devices, and we want to have the same kind of incredible experience where I can collaborate, discover, find, and engage with individuals around me and the work environment just like I have in my personal environment. 
And that’s the challenge that we all have. And the challenge that all of you have as you enable this is how do you enable users to be productive on all the devices they love while also keeping the company secure? 
That is our vision statement that we have for this area. Literally, our vision around enterprise mobility is to enable all of you to enable your users to be productive on all the devices they love while keeping the company secure. 
So I’m going to walk you through how we’re doing this. Now, as you think about your needs as you enable this, there are three big categories that I would propose you need to have. 
And what I hope you see as I go through this over the next few minutes is the breadth to which we’re investing and what we’re bringing to help you from a mobility perspective is far and away more broad, more rich, more deep than any of the other mobile device management players on the market today. So let me walk through it. 
It all begins with identity. And what you want to be able to do is leverage the investment you’ve made in Active Directory for a decade or more. And you want to be able to extend that out to the cloud. And when I say extend it out to the cloud, you want to be able to have that identity be common and used across all the SaaS apps your employees are using around the world. 
Now, let me give you a fascinating data point here. We’re going to show you here in a couple of minutes the ability for us to actually give you a view of the SaaS apps that your employees are using within your company. And as we’ve worked with our early adopters on this, one of the questions we like to ask before we actually go run this is we ask, “How many SaaS apps do you think your employees are using?” Do you think they have any idea? Probably don’t. They’ll tell us, “Oh, I think they’re probably using 25.” 
Well, on average, what we find is there are over 250 SaaS apps that employees are using in a given company completely unmanaged. So we’re going to help you bring all those SaaS applications under management, enabling single sign on for the users, as well as management for the IT professionals. 
Then we have to do a wonderful job of doing device management and application management. And this is all about how you protect and enable the users on these devices. So device protection through mobile device management, and then application protection and the application of the files that are being used within those applications through mobile application management. 
Now, let me ask you the question: What’s the first app everyone wants to bring under management on these mobile devices and protect? What’s the first app? E-mail. Right? I see everyone’s head nodding. The number of times that I’ve spoken to customers who have said, “If only I had Outlook on my iPad for my users. If only I had Outlook on my Android devices for my users, I could give my users such a better experience than what they’re currently getting today where I force down on them a custom-built e-mail application that is nowhere near as functional as what Outlook could provide.” 
So what you’re going to see here, and we’re going to do this demonstration in two different parts today, we’re telling you that we are going to be bringing to the market a set of containers and application wrappers this calendar year on iOS and Android that’s going to allow you to bring your applications under management and manage what happens with the data that’s using those applications. 
And wait until you see what we’re doing with Office and how we’re going to bring those beautiful Office applications on your iPad, Android and Windows devices under management in a way that gives your users the absolute best experience on their mobile devices of anyone in the market. 
Finally, we believe in a layered approach to protection. Mobile device management allows you to protect the device. Mobile application management allows you to protect the application and the data in that application. But we also think you need to have a tier of protection where the protection actually travels with the file. 
So in our data protection, we have a set of capabilities that we call Azure Rights Management Service. And what it allows us to do is actually embed inside of the data file the actual protection and access rights. 
Let me give you some very real examples. My name is Brad Anderson. You know, I’m sorry to say that’s not a very unique name. You know, many of you probably know of other Brad Andersons in the industry, such as the former CEO of Best Buy and the former head of the Dell Server Division. 
I can’t tell you the number of times when I have received e-mails destined for one of them where auto-fill put my name in rather than theirs. Okay? That is accidental data leakage protection. 
With what we’re delivering to the market, again, across Windows, iOS and Android, if that sort of thing were to happen, it doesn’t matter because the access rights, privileges, and permissions actually travel in the file. The file protects itself. 
And we know from the telemetry that we get from Office 365 that as we’ve done this work across all the Office applications and Adobe, we are actually providing this kind of protection in over 70 percent of all the data files that are used inside of the enterprise today. 
So a tiered model allows you to get insights into, you know, the device protection, the application protection, as well as data protection. 
And this now allows you to enable your users across all the devices that they love and extends your identity management out into the cloud. 
Now, let me talk about how we bring this to the market. You know, back in March, Satya announced the release of the iPad applications from Office. In that same event, he also announced what we call the enterprise mobility suite. 
The enterprise mobility suite is where we bring all these capabilities that give you the world’s best solution for enterprise mobility management. And we’ve also done innovation about how we package and price it. 
We know you don’t want to count devices. So we actually bring this to market at $4 per user per month, independent of the number of devices that they have. 
Okay, so for $4 per user per month, you can get all these rich capabilities that I just talked about, enable your users across all their devices, and let them just go crazy and bring in whatever device that they want to have to come into work because they’re going to be more happy, they’re going to be more satisfied, and they’re going to be more productive. 
Let me talk about one other innovation that we’re bringing that has to do with application management. Every one of you has got vast inventories of applications that you need to deliver down to your users. Many of those applications are Windows-based applications that you now need to deliver down to personal devices, again, cross iOS, Android and Windows. 
One of the No. 1 requests that we get from organizations is we don’t want to have to build out the infrastructure to be able to host the ability to remote applications to my users’ devices. I want you to do that in Azure. 
So today we’re putting into preview Azure Remote App. This is literally a re-architecture, a rewrite of remote desktop services that’s been built expressly to run inside of Azure and has been built to take advantage of all the incredible enterprise-grade capabilities of Azure. 
This now gives you the ability — you’re going to be able to upload your line-of-business applications up into Azure, and then have those remoted down to your users’ devices, again, across Windows, iOS and Android. Available today because we’re delivering this as a service. You’re going to see us iterating on this at just a rate that’s unbelievable, bringing new value constantly. So stay tuned, you’re going to see us bring a lot of value that many of you are going to have questions about. 
Now, one interesting data point I’ll tell you about this. Back in October, we released the clients or the applications for RDS on Mac, iOS and Android. Since October, we’ve had more than 4 million downloads of those applications across the stores, with spectacular ratings. 
You want to see some of this?  Okay. So what we’re going to do here is we’re now going to show you what it means to extend your identity, have identity management in the context of enterprise mobility, and Azure Remote Apps. Adam, welcome. 
 Thank you, Brad.  Good morning, everybody. Now, as I’m sure you’re all aware, Active Directory is the primary authentication mechanism in over 90 percent of businesses around the world. 
As an IT pro, identity more than ever is how you’re going to control how users get access to data and to applications. 
I’m going to show you today how our hybrid identity solutions centered around Active Directory and Azure Active Directory are going to help you do this in your business. 
I’m going to start here as a user, and I’m going to log onto a SaaS application, by way of example, Office 365. I enter my user ID and click “next.” 
Now, the first thing you’re going to see is that I’m redirected to a corporate sign-in page. Here, I can enter my corporate credentials, the same ones that I use in the office every day, sign in, and be granted access to the application, in this case my mailbox. 
Now, I want you to stop and just think about what you just saw. A user went to a SaaS application, entered their Active Directory credentials, and was granted access to the application. 
We can achieve this because we have connected our on-premises Active Directory to Azure Active Directory. 
This is the Azure Active Directory administration portal. Our company is using Azure Active Directory to provide a single sign-on for all of our applications on premises and in the cloud. 
One of the capabilities that we provide with Azure Active Directory are security reports. These security reports are built using machine learning. And we run these across all of the authentications that happen against Azure Active Directory. We do this at incredible scale. In the time it takes me to say this sentence, Azure Active Directory will have completed 100,000 authentications. That’s over 2 billion per day. That’s incredible scale. 
Here, you see some of the reports that are there. I can see things like users with anomalous sign-in activity. This is where a user is operating in one mode and then for some strange reason, something unusual happens and something else happens, potentially a breach. 
I can see users who are possibly signing in from infected devices, maybe with viruses or malware. And the report that I want to show you today is the sign-in from multiple geographies. 
This report, which I like to refer to as the “impossible travel report,” shows me users who have logged in from two geographic locations where it’s not possible to get between those locations in a given time frame. 
Here, I can see this rather suspicious user, Adam Hall, has apparently managed to log on from France and the United States in under two minutes. Now, I don’t know about you guys, but I’m pretty sure that I can’t get from France to the United States in under two minutes with any known transport to man. 
So the most likely outcome here is that a bad guy has compromised my user account and is using it to impersonate me around the world. 
As an administrator I want to be able to take a response to that. I can either reset the user’s password or I can enforce a multifactor authentication. In either case the bad guy gets locked out and the user has to re-verify their identity before they’re allowed to access any more corporate information.
So we have all this information about users, we can see what they’re doing, but where do the user accounts come from. If I move across to the user’s list, here I see all of the users in my organization regardless of where they originated. And I can use this list to grant users access to applications. The question I have, though, is what applications are they accessing?
In a recent survey, over 80 percent of users admitted that they were using nonapproved SaaS applications to get their job done at work, 80 percent nonapproved. As an administrator that’s a big problem for me, these users are storing and accessing applications that I don’t know where they are, and I have no way of controlling access to that data.
I would like to introduce you to the Cloud App Discovery Tool. This is a tool that as an administrator allows me to see what applications my users are accessing. I can see how many applications they’re using, and I can drill in and see not only which applications they’re accessing, but how many users are accessing each of these applications. This allows me to work with my business to prioritize which applications we want to bring under corporate control first. Once I understand which applications to bring under control, I can use Azure Active Directory, which contains a gallery of nearly 1,300 SaaS applications to preconfigure these apps so that my users can get single sign on using their Active Directory Credentials. I can even delegate this down to a business application owner and allow them to control which users can access the application.
Now, speaking of getting access to applications, something that I’m very excited to show you for the very first time is Azure Remote App. This is a new service, as Brad mentioned, that’s in preview from today. My company is using Azure Remote App to deliver our application running on Windows Server leveraging the power and the scale of Azure.
I can publish access to applications that my users can launch and run from anywhere on a wide range of devices using the Microsoft Remote Desktop Client. Azure Remote App is a cloud service and it will automatically scale up and scale back down based on the load that my users are doing on it.
Now we’ll be talking a lot more about Remote App in Foundation Vision 02, straight after the keynote, and in breakout sessions throughout the week. So guys, Microsoft is delivering amazing enterprise mobility capability enabling you to deliver self-service and single sign-on in your businesses today.
Thank you. Have a great TechEd, and I look forward to catching up with you during the week.
 Thanks, Adam.
All right. Identity management, Azure Remote App. Let us worry about the scaling. Let us worry about the headings of managing the supply chain, of building out the infrastructure for you to be able to host all of your applications and then remote them down to the different devices.
Now, one word here as well, you’ll see us continue to work with our long-term partner Citrix in this area as well, and we’ll continue to work with them on what they announced last week of all their workspace services coming to Azure as well as areas around an Azure Remote App as we go forward. So look forward to that as well.
So now let’s transition a little bit and talk to the developers in the audience for a minute. And as we think about what the cloud can bring to developers, I would make the statement here that today every one of you, from an enterprise organization, just has this incredible inventory of Windows applications. It’s not uncommon for me to hear about thousands of applications and views that have been built over the last 10-15 years.
In fact, I recently met with a pharmaceutical and a financial organization who told me they have over 10,000 apps that they use inside their organization.
Right now, in this calendar year, the No. 1 priority for CEOs around the world is to improve the user experience, both for their end users as well as for their customers, and all of that is coming down to the apps that get built across all these devices to improve the engagement. So I would submit that the cloud is going to be integral to accelerating application innovation as we move forward.
Now as we talk with developers around the world, it’s a pretty common and simple set of things that they ask for but yet have gone undelivered. They want to be able to develop and have a simple development model that can apply across all of the different devices. They want to be able to iterate quickly. They love the value that they hear about that comes from the cloud in order of how you get telemetry back. You can improve, you can refine, you can be constantly delivering out value.
And, finally, they want to be able to do it in a rapid development process that really just comes down to how do they get value out faster and faster? They don’t want to be locked into some kind of a model where they’re only able to get new capabilities out every six months, every year, every two years. So what we’ve been working on at Microsoft is how we enable this, how we enable you to build once, run everywhere, with rich applications optimized for the cloud and the value that brings in a rapid development cycle.
So let’s talk about multidevice, and let’s start right at home with Windows for a minute. At BUILD we announced what we call Universal Windows Applications. This is incredible work that the Operating Systems Group has been doing where they’re converging on a common kernel for all the devices. With Universal Windows Applications, you can now literally have a single project in Visual Studio and that code, the vast majority of that code, more than 90 percent of that code can apply across the entire Windows family, from across PCs, tablets, phones and the Xbox. Okay, a remarkable set of capabilities. And it’s the first and only in the industry that with a single code base you can actually get applicability and reach to the entire Windows portfolio.
Now let me give you an example on some of the innovation that’s coming in future versions of Windows. And what I’m going to demo for you here is I want to demo to you something that’s in Windows Phone 8.1. First of all, let me just kind of point out this is a new Nokia 930 that’s going to be coming around the world. A beautiful, beautiful device I would encourage you to take a look at.
Now, the first thing that I want to show you here is I want to show you one of the innovations that we call Cortana. So let’s just start.
Good morning, Cortana.
 Good morning.
 Cortana, the first and only personal digital assistant in the cloud. This is just a native part of the operating system here on Windows Phone 8.1 powered by the cloud, powered by Bing. It gets to know who I am. It watches my preferences. It watches what I do. And then what that allows it to do is when I interact with it, it surfaces up the things that are relevant to me given what my past behavior has been.
So let’s just give you a couple of examples here. If I click on search here, the first thing is it’s going to show me when I come into search here is things that are important to me. It’s going to show, for example, the weather where we’re at. It’s going to show, for example, it’s tracking my flight home, and it would notify me if there were any changes. It knows that I’m a huge Seahawks fan, I wanted to know how they did in the draft. But it’s doing these things based upon what it is that I like to do.
Now, let’s take a look at what things that Cortana can do for me. What’s on my calendar for Thursday?
 You’ve got two events Thursday, at 10:00 a.m., one-on-one Sara at my office. And at 3:00 p.m., planning meeting at Room 3210.
 I can use this to make me productive. Let’s say, for example, I wanted to go schedule something for Friday night.
Go see Godzilla, Friday, May 16th at 7:00 p.m.
 All right. I’ll add “go see Godzilla” to your calendar for Friday at 7:00 p.m. Sound good?
 Yes.
 Okay. I’ve added it. Just so you know, you have date night with my wife to see a romantic comedy at the same time.
 Yes, I’m not sure if Cortana is going to be able to help me position Godzilla as a romantic night out, but we’ll see what it can do.
Find me the best barbeque in Houston.
 There are 10 barbeque places in Houston that have good reviews.
 It’s able to interact with Yelp, and again it’s just surfacing information that’s relevant to me. If I had asked, find me a great restaurant, it would know what kind of food I like, and it would bring that up to the top of the results because it knows who I am.
Now, let’s watch some of the other things that it’s able to do. And this is one of the things that is unique to Cortana that nothing else like this in the industry can do, because it knows who I interact with from a people perspective.
Next time I speak with Chris remind me to congratulate him on his daughter’s graduation.
 Okay, next time you talk to Chris Brian, I’ll remind you to congratulate him on his daughter’s graduation. Is that right?
 Yes.
So it knows who I am.
 Got it.
 And it knows the people I interact with, and it’s able to make those connections for me. One of the great things about Cortana is, say I’m in a meeting and I want to be able to use the capabilities, I don’t have to speak, I can interact with the keyboard here. So let’s say that I wanted to see all e-mail from Chris.
Really what it does here is it brings up all the e-mail on the device, and if I were to click on one of those, it reminds me to congratulate him on his daughter. If I got a text, a phone call, anything from Chris it would automatically remind me. Gone are going to be those days when I forget to congratulate people on different parts of their life.
One other thing for the developers in the audience real fast, one of the nice things about Cortana is it has an interface that you can actually take your line of business applications you’re building and enable them for this kind of capability. The way that you do that is you just simply speak the name of the application and then the request. So for example here, let’s say that I have an application and I’m working for a company called Contoso that’s a construction company. Watch what I can do.
Contoso find jobs near me.
 Searching Contoso engineering. There are several jobs near your current location.
 So I can take my own internal applications and enable them for this rich kind of experience. The last thing I want to mention is we’ve done work inside of Windows Phone 8.1 by introducing the same management or mobile device management capabilities that we’ve had in Windows, specifically RT, so that this device now can be a first-class citizen in the enterprise fully managed by the mobile device management capabilities that you have, so universal Windows applications and the applicability across those devices across the entire family.
Now, historically as developers we’ve been faced with a set of decisions as we set out to do a new project and it seems like we’ve been in a tyranny of “or.” Do we opt for building native applications that deliver rich experiences, but now I have to develop multiple applications, it’s more time consuming and expensive, or do I go for breadth and develop in HTML? With the new version of Visual Studio we’re breaking this tyranny of or. And what we’re doing here now is we’re innovating across the industry, with partners and with open source, to deliver incredible capabilities that get you out of that position.
So first of all, if you’re a .NET developer you now can use .NET to develop native applications for iOS and Android through the partnership with Xamarin. Literally one project and you can then have that automatically built in a way that takes advantage of the unique capabilities of the various platforms and get rich applications with 60, 70 percent of your code common. We use this internally on the Intune team. The self-service portal that you see, that you interact with our service, is all built using Xamarin.
For those of you who are Web developers, what we’ve done is we’ve integrated now with Apache Cordova and Cordova has taken the ability to develop what the industry is calling hybrid apps, which is a mixture of HTML and JavaScript, which allows you to have a Web app that has a much richer experience. So again, taking you Web developers and enabling you to deliver a much richer experience than you ever have been able to do before, all through Visual Studio.
The other thing I want to talk about real quickly is the work that we’re doing on ASP.net and how we’re going to enable you to take this to the cloud and build the world’s best cloud applications using ASP.net. So literally we’re doing things to make it more agile, allowing you to iterate faster and just be quick in your development cycle. We’re making it faster to help you achieve the absolute with maximum throughput and scalability. With things like this you can actually choose what to decide in every application and even in every request. And finally it continues to be open. It’s cross-platform and we’ve open sourced this work to make sure that ASP.net truly is the best solution for you to build your cloud applications.
Now finally, if we talk about fast iteration and fast time to value, we wanted to show you what we’ve been doing and the progress we’ve been making in the application lifecycle, delivering from the cloud. And to do that Brian is going to come up on stage and give us a demo. Give him a hand. 
 Thanks, Brad. I appreciate it.
Welcome. It’s good to be back at TechEd. So I’m going to tell you about a few things we’ve been doing recently in application lifecycle management. So from the beginning we’ve thought sort of the key ingredient to application lifecycle management is integration, enabling all of the people involved in software development in your organization to stay up-to-date with what’s happening. We started with a core set of capabilities around developer transparency. Let’s understand what’s happening with the developers in the development process.
Over time we’ve built that out adding capabilities for project management, for testing, about a year ago release management, and then most recently application insights that enables you to actually see what’s happening inside your application in the deployed environment, whether it’s on a server running in your data center, the public cloud, or on a device in your user’s hands. It helps you understand how it’s performing, whether it’s reliable, and what your users are doing with it.
And of course, we’ve spent a lot lately focused on bringing all of that ALM value to the cloud with Visual Studio Online. A month ago at BUILD we announced that we now have over a million users of Visual Studio Online, and that it had reached general availability, meaning that it has a financially backed service level agreement, and you can count on it for your mission-critical applications.
Of course, we found as people have adopted Visual Studio Online and they try to modernize their application lifecycle processes that they’ve inevitably got a set of tools that they use internally, whether those tools are things they’ve built, or things that they’ve bought, in order to achieve that core integrated application lifecycle management value they have to integrate those tools with Visual Studio. So today we’re rolling out a new set of open APIs for Visual Studio Online. These APIs are based on open standards, they use REST, OAuth and service hooks to enable you to integrate any of your existing applications with Visual Studio Online and achieve that end-to-end benefit.
In order to sort of show what we can do here I’m going to invite out Richard White, CEO and founder of UserVoice, to show some of the cool stuff we’ve been able to do together.
 Thanks, Brian.
 Thank you, Richard. 
 So at UserVoice we’re all about helping companies make the best user experience through making user feedback manageable and actionable. And we’ve helped thousands of companies manage feedback from millions of end users and employees to do this. But, I’m really excited to be here today with you, Brian, because the integration we’ve done with Visual Studio allows us really easily to go from user feedback to engineering and back to the users in a seamless way. So I thought we’d do a quick demo.
 Great. Sounds good.
 I’m going to be the product manager in this demo and Brian is going to be the engineering manager. What I’m going to show you real quick here, what you’re looking at is actually a UserVoice portal. It’s a public portal some just sample ideas on it. You can imagine your users are employees coming to this, giving their feedback, and voting up the feedback of other users. This is a public portal. Anyone can access this one. But, you can even have it privately behind Active Directory authentication.
But, I’m a product manager so this is not where I live. I live in here. And this is our admin console where I will get not just the feedback that users are giving me, but I also will get the data analytics so I know what things we should be prioritizing and putting into our next spritz.
So what’s really cool is very quickly I’ve decided that this is something we should actually work on. This is the thing we should do next and so I wanted to send it over to Brian team so they can put it in the backlog and prioritize this. And all I need to do is go to this gear here, click create work item in Visual studio. I can edit this if I wanted to. I hit submit. And now you see that this is syncing to Visual Studio. So Brian you should see something on your side now.
 Excellent. So it showed up on my list. I’m the developer. It showed up on my backlog. And this, of course, is a pretty important item. So I’m going to drag this to the top and we’re going to work on this immediately. You’ll notice it’s automatically been tagged as a UserVoice suggestion. So I can super-easily search and filter to find all of the items on my backlog that come directly from my end users.
Now, my team uses Kanban so let’s switch over to the Kanban board. And we can see that automatically that item has showed up on my Kanban board as a card. I can drag that over into approved, because that’s something we’re going to start working on. And immediately that’s going to send data back to UserVoice, so that the product manager knows that we’re going to work on that. While I’m at it, let’s go in and I’ll enter a comment that says we’re starting on that today. I’ll save and close that and let’s see what that looks like over in UserVoice.
 Awesome.
So now that Brian has updated that and marked it as approved I actually see in my history in UserVoice what’s been happening in engineering. And so I see this marked as approved. I see Brian’s comment that it’s starting today. So I’m going to close the loop with users and send out a status update. So I’m going to mark this idea as started. And this is actually going to not only post on the portal that we started working on this, it’s also going to directly message back to everyone that wanted this functionality and let them know they’ve been heard.
So we’re super-excited about this connection, from feedback to engineering and back to end users. We think it’s super-important for agile, customer-centric companies, and I’m really glad to be here today.
 Thank you, Richard. 
So that’s one example of the kinds of things that you can do. I’d encourage you to join me in the foundational session immediately after the keynote, where we’re going to talk about dozens of other integrations that we’ve already built. We’re also going to spend some time talking about all the other cool stuff we’ve been working on in ALM and some of the cool stuff that’s going to come out in the coming months.
Thank you very much. 
 Thanks, Brian. That’s a great color shirt.
All right. So we talked about IT pros, we talked about developers. In many ways I think this is where it’s actually going to get the most fun this morning. Let’s talk about all the innovations that we’re doing for users and talk about how in this mobile-first, cloud world  mobile-first/cloud-first world our users can get value. The things that we can do for them and literally I think the cloud is going to enable our users to do things they’ve only dreamed of in the past. Literally the cloud opens up opportunities that have never been possible before as we deliver all your capabilities that you’re doing on premises.
So we wanted to give you a view of how we actually do this. And to start with, let’s actually take a view of a video where if you step back and imagine working in a world that’s incredibly connected what we can do. Let’s take a watch.
Again, opening ourselves up and saying, let’s dream, let’s imagine what’s possible in the world of productivity, and of data insights, and how we enable that across all users across all devices.
So let’s get into it. First of all, you know, as humans we just have an uncanny ability to achieve if we can only focus. Every single one of us that’s listening to this today is facing this common flood of information coming into us. The technology needs to help us by presenting to us the things that are personalized that are relevant to us that are tying and help us to move from information to action.
Second, we need to open up all of our communications and we need to literally work like a network. Today far too many of the communications are locked up inside of organizations along the organizational boundaries. All too often the sharing and the communication we do, again, is locked up within those boundaries. We need to open that up. And by default we should have the ability to share across an organization everything. And by default we should be in a much more open environment that is inviting and allows me to increase my knowledge.
And the third thing is, we have to enable our users, we have to empower them in a responsible manner. So as we think about mobility, and we think about enterprise mobile management, we want to enable our users in a way that is enabling, not blocking, as we help them understand how to protect the corporate assets. At the same time, we have to strike the right balance so that IT only has access to policy and express policy on the corporate things on these personal devices, and doesn’t stray into the personal side of the device. So we’re going to talk more about that over the next few minutes.
So let’s focus for just a minute on going from information to action, and so much of this depends on having a comprehensive data platform. You have to start with the wonderful place where you can bring all your data together, structured, unstructured, bring that all together in one place. You then have to have an analytics engine that allows you to refine, purify and process that data. In Azure we have a set of capabilities that we call HD Insight, and HD Insight is built upon Hadoop, and you can bring all your information up into HD Insight, and you’ve got this incredible and powerful analytics engine there to then start to gain insight. And then you need to get that data to the people, and you need to give that data to all the people, just not the data scientists, and do it in the tools and in the capabilities and things that the customers are wanting, that your users want to use. That’s why we surface all of this up through Excel. So now the 1 billion users of Office can have this incredible business intelligence experience in the tools that they know and that they love. And this literally is what delivers to you that comprehensive data platform.
Again, this is one of those things that you just have to see to understand. So with that let’s take a look literally at how the City of Barcelona is using this to go from information to action. So let’s give Eron a hand.
 Thanks, Brad.
It’s great to be here at TechEd to share with you how our customers are turning insight into action. The City of Barcelona has always been focused on delivering great services to their citizens and visitors. And for those of you who have been there for one of their big festivals, you know they throw a great party. Now they’re going to move to the Microsoft Cloud to make it even better.
And so the first service I want to highlight here, and they’re doing this across many, is called Bicing. And with Bicing you check out a bike from a kiosk and kind of drive it around the city, and you can check it back into another kiosk. It’s a very, very low cost way of getting around the city. And there are two things they wanted to understand about Bicing. One, where are the bicycles all around the city at a given time and, two, they wanted to measure social sentiment, and see what do citizens think of these various services that we’re delivering here in the city.
Now, as Brad said, not everyone is a data scientist, so in many cases the employees of the city are using their tool they love, Excel, to do the analysis. So let’s start here. Now, all data projects, of course, start with getting some data. In this case, I’m going to do an online search right from Excel and find some data. What’s good about this is with Power BI I can not only search public data sources, like here climate data from Wikipedia around Barcelona, but I also have the ability to look at curated organizational data. So this is data that I pick and curate for me, and I as an end user know that it’s safe and ready to use.
So let me check out this one right here. This looks good, it’s got information on street location. And what I really need here is, what are the locations of the bicycles around the city. Let me go ahead and grab that and I’m going to load that into Excel so I can start to do some analysis, great, great feature of online search. Now I’ve got my data.
Now, of course, I want to bring in the social sentiment. And here’s where one of our great partners, BI Smarts, has come in. And what they’ve done is, as Brad mentioned, is they’ve done some Hadoop analysis in HD Insight up in Azure. And what this allows the customers to do is it allows you to look at social sentiment data up in the cloud. And what this has allowed the city to do is they don’t necessarily have to have the data scientist experts, but what they can do is rely on partners to bring that data to them.
And here I see the file here, and it’s the sentiment data I’m looking for, it’s got my tweets, it’s got my sentiment there. I’m positive. This is what I need. So let me go ahead and merge this now with my existing data set. I’m going to go ahead and merge. And here in Power Query this is called a merge, and I’m going to use the station location as the way of doing that. And for those DBAs in the room, think of this as like a join. Do we have any DBAs out there? Not too many.
So now I’ve got the data that I’m looking for, and let me go ahead and bring this into Excel. So now I’ve got my data, I’ve got a combined data set. I’ve got my line of business data that was curated by IT. I’ve got my social sentiment that was developed by a partner. But it’s hard for me to do analysis like this. I really need more power. So I’m going to go to Power Map. And let me go ahead and launch Power Map.
And what Power Map is is a great feature of Excel that allows me to do great visualizations around this kind of data. And here I can see the map of Barcelona, and I can see the location of the different bicycle stations. Let me add some more data in. Let me go ahead and add bikes available there like that, and I can see where the various bikes available. I can also add some street data. Now I can start to see what’s happening in the city. I can kind of hover over each of these bars and see the number of bikes available at the different locations.
So that’s pretty cool. So I’ve got half of it done. Now what I want to do is I want to layer in that sentiment. And let me go ahead and add another layer. Okay, so here we have sentiment. I’m going to go over here and I want to map in with latitude and longitude the Twitter sentiment. I’m going to show that as a heat map now. And let’s take a look at some of the positive tweets. So there’s the positive tweets. Let’s look at this, let’s zoom back into the city and see what’s going on, see what these correlations might look like.
And then, as you can see there, you can see where the bicycle locations are, you can also see that there’s a lot of positive tweets around where there’s a lot of bicycles. That’s great.
Let’s look at the other side of the house. Let’s look at where the negative tweets are. If I just toggle the data just like that, I can see a new trend. You can see now that there’s negative tweets associated with a lack of bicycles in that area, very, very insightful.
So think of what we’ve done so far. We’ve got curated data out of the data catalogue that was curated by IT. We have social sentiment off of Hadoop and Azure. We’ve combined that together in a rich visualization tool here in Excel so that end users can start to manipulate and interact with the data. Really, really cool, very powerful. But, you know what, this isn’t even the best part.
The best part is a feature that’s called Q&A that’s in the Power BI service. With Q&A you can actually ask a question in natural language and you get an answer. So it’s kind of like HAL in “Space Odyssey,” except Q&A is not going to try to crash the ship.
So let’s take a look. Let’s take a look at the total bikes available. And I can look at the total bikes available, and I can see there’s about 3,000. Now how about by street, and this is what’s so powerful. Q&A says, you’re looking at a comparison, let me give you a line chart. Just ask your question and get an answer. How about versus total capacity? So I can start to see some comparisons. I get a scatter chart. I can even look at this as a line chart. And now I can start to take some action.
And so the city employees are looking at data like this and they’re saying, hey, where is there a location where the bike is available and the total capacity is the same? Let me roll trucks to those locations, pick up some bikes, and move them over to other parts of the city where we don’t have nearly as many bikes. And I can get to that by just asking a question. It’s really, really cool.
Now let’s also take a look at this negative sentiment, so I can look at these negative tweets, as well. And again, I see this correlation where the more negative tweets I see the fewer bikes are available there. But, there are some outliers like Rossello. That’s a street in Barcelona. Should we drill into that? Let’s take a look. So I can look at tweet messages for Rossello. And just like that Q&A gives me the actual tweets that happened around that city.
So think about the power of this, curated data from IT, sentiment data from Hadoop, and I put it in a service like Power BI and I can literally ask a question and drill into a specific tweet. This is what we talk about when we say taking insight and turning it into action.
Thank you very much. 
 Like imagine how much you can revolutionize and empower users if you deliver them those set of capabilities. Okay. So let’s keep going here, lots of exciting things to talk about in this last segment. Okay. So first of all, let’s talk about the future of productivity, let’s talk about the future of Office and how we’re going to make that manageable for you in the enterprise in this mobile-first, cloud-first world.
First I want to talk a little about what we call Office Graph. Think about Office Graph as a set of capabilities we can run in the cloud based upon the same cloud infrastructure that Cortana is, that’s able to understand an individual’s intent, of course based upon historical actions, preferences and relationships.
Imagine then being able to surface up to you timely and relevant data inside of the Office capabilities, inside of the Office tools, that apply to what you’re doing at that moment on that given day. Imagine being able to open up your e-mail and have it sorted to the things most important to you right then, the task at hand. Imagine going to a meeting and the tool is automatically surfacing up to you all the relevant information for that meeting. That’s what we’re going to deliver through the cloud through Office 365. We’re going to show you here in a minute.
We talked about working like a network to take that next step and really bring up  take that next leap in productivity. We’ve got to open up our communication internally within our companies. Far too often we’re so contained within the organizational structures and by default our communications are closed. What if by default all of our communications were open and discoverable across the entire organization, how much more knowledgeable, how much more smart, how much more productive would we be? And finally, we need to enable this across all the devices and really unleash this mobile productivity.
Now let me get specific on some of the things that we’re talking about here. There’s been a number of tweets this morning asking for more information here. What we’ve been doing is working across the Intune and Office teams to natively now instrument the Office 365 apps across all the platforms to natively be manageable through Intune. That’s going to allow you to do things like control where your users save corporate documents in e-mail, as well as the Office applications. It’s also going to enable you to manage things like where you can copy and paste to. We’re going to take that same set of capabilities and we’re going to deliver that to all of you in the form of a wrapper that you can wrap your own applications, just a note for those of you who have been working with App V, what’s App V? It’s a wrapper for Windows applications. The team that has built our wrappers is the App V team, which I would debate is the most qualified organization in the world to build wrappers. This will all be available in the second half of this calendar year and this combination of Office, and of Intune as a component of the enterprise mobility suite, will give you far and away the best productivity and management solution for your users. Are you interested in seeing it? 
Okay, a little more energy than that. Are you interested in seeing it? There we go. All right. Let’s welcome Julia. Give her a hand. 
 All right. Thanks, Brad.
All right. Now Brad talked about how we can work more like a network with open, discoverable communications and how we can take a step function in productivity with crystallized relevance-based experiences and, of course, how we can be productive and secure across all of our devices.
Now, I am going to show you both some recently released capabilities, as well as what’s coming in the future with both Office 365 and Intune. So let me first start here in OneDrive for business. Now, I know many of you are struggling right now with lots of rogue storage and sharing solutions that your users are bringing in. A lot of them are consumer-based, or they’re niche vendors that you don’t support. Now with OneDrive for business, you have an IT-managed business-class storage and sharing solution that you can manage and your users will love. And it now has one terabyte of storage per user, amazing value.
And as a user it’s so easy to work with. So all I can do is I can just drag and drop content right into my OneDrive For Business experience that simply, but also we know users are working in all different circumstances. And I might want to sync and locally sync. So I just click the sync there and when I do that if I go to my Windows file view you can see there is that same content synched locally. So I can be working online or offline. And if I’m offline and make some changes it just syncs back up when I’m back online. So I always have one source of the truth. But, I can always be productive.
Now, this is also where I share my content, because I want to collaborate and share with people across the company and outside the company. So to do that I just click on this sharing icon and you can see I’ve shared this document with several people, but I can share it with more just as easily.
And so because, again, this is IT-managed, as I type additional people like Bonnie, my Active Directory renders up that address list, so I can just grab Bonnie. But, I can also share with someone outside the company, as well. So for example, Joe at Joe.com, and anyone I’d want. And of course, you can configure this whether you can share it just internally or externally, as well. And with that click I have literally taken that document, shared it with someone inside the company to collaborate, as well as someone outside the company to collaborate.
Let’s talk about collaboration, because that’s how work is increasingly getting done in kind of the new default. So if I open this Word document by default it opens it into my browser-based experience, Word Online. And I can choose to edit it in my desktop app, or in my browser. I’ll go ahead and do it in the browser. Now as it opens it also you’ll see that there’s actually two other people editing, both Doris and Robin. Let me just scroll down here so you can get a sense. I can actually see real time exactly what edits they’re making. Look, there’s Doris making some edits. There’s Robin. So pixel-by-pixel I actually see the edits that are happening.
Now as they’re making their edits I want to do some edits, as well. And I’m going to show you one of my favorite new features in Office 365, TellMe. So maybe I want to add a table, but I can’t remember where in the ribbon to do that, I don’t remember where that command is. Well, I don’t have to care about that anymore. I can just go to TellMe and say, “insert table.” And it takes me not to some help and how-to, it takes me to the actual command. So there I type it in, it takes me to the command, and I drop that table in that easily. So again, I don’t have to know where that is in the ribbon and find it. I can just drop it in with the TellMe feature.
Now the team there, my companions are making all the edits they want, and making the document look great, now I’m done with my edit, so I’m going to go back to my OneDrive For Business and I now want to share this information out with my company. And of course the best way to do that is using our enterprise social experience with Yammer just straight from OneDrive for business. I can just go ahead and post that out to Yammer, because it’s all just part of Office 365. So I’ll go ahead and post that out there.
Now let’s go to Yammer to take a look at that. There is that post that I just made and this is my great enterprise social experience, but in an IT-managed way, right. And it has all the capabilities I want. So I can like it, I can reply, and again, because it’s connected to Active Directory if I want to at-mention someone I can do that. There’s my address list, again, rendered, so it’s all connected and it’s that simple.
Now, because as Brad talked about, in enterprise social it’s open and discoverable I posted this out for anyone in the company to find. So if it’s relevant to them they have access to it. And that’s the new model of how we all want to work. And that’s the magic of enterprise social. And now this is my all-company view, but it’s also about how we work with groups of people, something we do every day. We bring groups of people to address a business need. And today we have these groups in Yammer. But, I’m actually going to switch over to a different Yammer experience. I’m actually going to switch over now to our dog food environment for Office 365. So I’m going to show you what’s coming in the future with groups and open communications.
So here I’m in my dog food experience for Office 365 and I have different groups. And here I’m in my marketing campaign group. And you see I have members across the company, but anyone can find this group and join it if it’s relevant to them. And you’ll see we’re discussing some videos and looking at some presentations. Now that’s great in terms of being in my Yammer experience, but we’re now going to take this lightweight ad hoc groups experience across all of Office 365. And let me show you what that looks like.
So I’m going to switch over here to my Outlook experience in the browser, Outlook Web App. And here is my inbox and my e-mail, as you would expect, and it looks like that. But, I also now have groups right down here and you see those are the same groups I just showed you in my Yammer experience. But, they’re now in my Outlook experience, too. And if I click on that marketing campaign there, in fact, is that same conversation. So now we’ve taken the benefit of these open, discoverable communications, but putting it in a tool that people are so familiar with, like Outlook. And everywhere I go across Office 365 will have this open communication by default. And we’ve done some smart things to make sure users know exactly what’s happening.
So unlike my traditional e-mail, when I’m in my group here the conversation goes down like a news feed, and I reply here at the bottom, or if I want to start a new conversation I do it up here at the top. So it’s just a little bit different than my personal inbox, so as a user I know when I’m in my personal inbox versus when I’m in this open conversation.
Now, talking about being open and discovering new things. A great example of that. So I work with Jim here on all kinds of projects, not just this marketing campaign. So I want to know if Jim is in a group, it’s a probably relevant to me as well. So I want to go see what groups Jim is part of. So I just click on this group here, and I can see that he’s in two groups that I’m not already a part of. So I want to go learn more.
So I can click into this group and I can actually get a view of the conversation right here if I want to see what’s going on. And I see, yes, this group and this conversation is pretty interesting to me, I do want to join this. So all I have to do is click right here, and I can join right from there. And you’ll notice it says it’s a public group, which means I can discover it and I can automatically join. I can also create private groups, which means you need permission to join as well. So different models there, but it’s giving you a sense of what that open communication experience looks like.
Now, if I go back to this marketing campaign here, and Bill is up here asking me about this video that he showed me and whether it’s useful for the campaign. Now I remember this video, it was in some meeting Bill had showed me a while ago, but I don’t remember where it was and where it was stored, and if he shared with me or not. And so what I would normally do today is I would probably respond here and ask him where the video link is, or maybe I would look on my OneDrive account, or maybe I’d Bing it.
Thanks to the power of the Office Graph that Brad described, and our new app code named “Oslo” that we’ve built on top of the graph, one of many apps that we’re building on the Office Graph, now I don’t have to go look for that information. That information is actually going to come to me.
So this is “Oslo,” and this is an app sitting on top of the Office Graph. And the Office Graph knows what I’m working on, it knows what my co-workers are working on, and it knows the actions we’re taking. And it’s taking all that information and it’s surfacing here a view of the content that’s most relevant and most important to me. So imagine instead of opening my Windows File Explorer just seeing a list of content. That’s not very useful. But this is actually showing me real-time based on my actions and the actions of people across the company, this is the information that’s most important to me, it’s the most relevant, and totally personalized. This is my view uniquely, and it tells me why.
So if I go to this marketing campaign here, it shows me that it was modified by me, that it’s trending around me, which means my co-workers and people I’m working with are also taking action on this document, that I’ve liked it, and I’ve viewed it. Again, this is real time, always being updated by that intelligence layer sitting in the Office Graph.
But this is kind of my default view, right, when I come to Oslo and see what’s most important. But I can use Oslo to do all kinds of different searches. And we have some default views that we think people will use a lot, like what information has been presented to me, what has been modified by me, liked by me, shared with me.
Let me go to presented to me, because this is a really powerful experience. Again, Office Graph knows what meetings I’m in, who are in those meetings, what content was shared as part of that meeting. And here in a single view it renders that for me. I don’t have to go looking for it. This is content stored all across my company. It doesn’t matter. In a single click I get this view, so, so powerful. But I can also use “Oslo” to do natural language search, and of course search for people, too.
Well, Bill was the one asking about this video, so let me go search on Bill. When I bring up Bill, you see I have two views of him. First I have this side, right, which is pulling from my Active Directory, which is his hierarchy, who his manager is, his peers, and his directs. And that’s useful information and that’s good to get that. But now thanks to “Oslo,” I can actually see more relevance-based information, how Bill is spending his time, who he is working with, who he and I are both working with, so I can discover this information and it’s relevance-based information. It’s really powerful.
Now, as I go down, I can also see what content is trending around Bill. Now, I want to be really, really clear. I only see content because it’s also been shared with me. “Oslo” and the Office Graph absolutely respects the privacy and permissions and security around content. So I see what is trending around Bill that I also have permission for. And there, in fact, is that video that Bill was asking about. Again, I was able to simply find it by searching on Bill and it rendered to me. So I hope you get a sense of some of the fantastic new capabilities coming based on that personalized relevance-based experience.
Now let me switch over and talk about working and being productive on all devices, as well as being secure on all devices. I’m going to switch over here to my iPad. Some of you might have heard that we launched Office for iPad recently. It’s a great, great experience. Let me just give you a little sample of what it’s like. Let me open Word here, and everything by default, again, is stored in the cloud, so I have access to it across all my devices. So I can go here and open that Northwind proposal, and that document that I was just working on in my Office Online experience, and I want to work on it here on my iPad as well.
And as I open it, you can see, of course, it looks fantastic. My document looks exactly like it should. There’s my written table of contents as I go down. And here’s that table that I just added when I was in the browser experience over here. One source of the truth with OneDrive for Business and even SharePoint Server can be behind this as well.
Now you see the ribbon is just like you’d expect, all the commands are where you’d expect them with that great Office experience. And, again, this is a very, very familiar Office experience. It’s unmistakably Word, but it’s also really natural on an iPad with touch. And this is an important design paradigm. We balanced making sure that it’s a familiar Office experience, yet great and native on the iOS experience as well. That way our 1 billion Office users can drop right into these apps and be confident from day one.
What’s also really easy for me to interact with touch on these devices, so I can just select in here, and grab some text, and I can grab it there. And you’ll see by default I get kind of the most common things, cut, copy, paste, but even define. I can bring my dictionary in all with touch.
But I can do sophisticated things, too, as well. If I want to go and see themes, I can actually change the whole theme of my document from these apps. So they really are powerful apps. And if I go down and I say grab this chart down here, something I built in Excel and brought over into my Word document, you’ll see when I tap on that chart I get that context-specific ribbon command up here. I can go to my start and I can right here in Word I can change the style, I can change the themes, I can see different renderings of this graph, even though it is created in Excel, I can manage it within Word. Again, that great promise for rich productivity experience.
And the great thing about this is I’m making changes and working on my document on my iPad. I know that it looks fantastic. If I go and open it on my PC, my Mac, my phone, in the browser experience, or if I share it out to anyone else as well, I know it looks great to them because we also keep that file fidelity exactly right. You know your content is never lost, and your formatting looks awesome. And just like all of our Office apps, of course, we have co-editing right here in these apps as well. So there’s Garth and Robin editing this document now here when I’m working on my iPad. Again, all saved to the cloud, co-auth all works across the app.
All right, that’s what we have today on the iPad. There are other apps, too, I encourage you to download them and try them if you haven’t, but let me switch over to a different iPad, because I’m going to talk about what’s coming in the future in a partnership between Office 365 and Intune that enables mobile device management of these Office for iPad apps.
Essentially, this will enable the corporate data to remain within IT-managed environments while giving users that Office productivity experience that they love. Now on this iPad specifically IT has applied policies and controls on which apps I can use for business purposes and where the data can reside. So I’ll show you what that looks like.
I’m going to start in my OWA app for iPad here in my email experience of course. Now, Brad has shared this Excel file with me that I want to take a look at, so I want to go ahead and open that Excel file. And it opens it in the default viewer and it looks awful. But that’s okay, luckily I have my great Office app to open it in.
And you’ll see when I go to open it in a different app it’s only showing me apps that have been approved by IT to use for business purposes. I as a user am not shown other things. I can’t mistakenly open it in a different app. It guides me to just the right app, which is a great user experience, and all the IT controls I want.
Now there’s my Excel file looking as it should, giving a little glimpse of what the app store charts looked like when we launched our new app, and here is the latest download information about the app. It looks like we have about 27 million downloads of these apps. Not bad, just the top 10 countries. I want to share that great download information with some co-workers. So I’m going to go ahead and copy that. And now I’m going to try and share it. And I’m going to first try using my native e-mail app on the iPad, right, the app I use for my consumer purposes, and this has not been approved by IT to use, but I’m going to try to do it anyway. So I’m going to open a new e-mail, and I’m going to paste the content in, and when I select there, you see there’s no option to paste. That’s been turned off thanks to those Intune policies I am not allowed to do that. So I as a user am protected from putting business data in a nonmanaged app.
So instead let me go back to my OWA for iPad app that is approved for business use and send an e-mail here. Let me go select in there and you’ll see there I can paste, because this is an approved app. So my business content stays only in the managed app. So just to give you a sense of what’s coming to enable data protection and IT control, while still giving users that fantastic Office experience that they want.
So we’ve covered a lot of ground. So just to quickly recap, first we talked about IT-managed storage and sharing solutions with OneDrive for business. So now you can get all of your company-sensitive data out of all those boxes it’s sitting in and put it in one holistic and secure solution in Office 365. We also talked about how you can help the organizations work more like a network with Yammer and the new future Office 365 Groups. We showed you the new Oslo experience that’s based on personalized, relevance-based rendering, putting it at your fingertips. Also, the Office for iPad apps, that no-compromise productivity solution, and what’s coming in the future to be able to manage those apps with Intune.
With that, back to Brad. 
 Thank you.
It’s just awesome, right? Look at that experience that you can deliver to your users on all their mobile devices, the best experience for your users, centered on Office, the best experience for the IT professionals in ensuring that the data that is being accessed is secure. This will be your  this literally will be your baseline and will be the bar that industry will be held to, in terms of enterprise mobility management.
Real quickly, let me tell you about three customers using this in innovative ways. Mitchells & Butlers, okay, a common restaurant chain in the U.K., they’re going paperless. They’re actually giving all the wait staff iPods. For the front of the house they’re using Android tablets. They’re managing all that through Intune, in fact, this organization through a combination of System Center and Intune is managing 20,000 PCs and mobile devices with two individuals, amazing.
Okay. British Airways, British Airways has this relentless focus on how they deliver the best absolute experience to their customers, to the people who are flying. They’ve actually embraced Office 365. Today they have 11,000 individuals who are on Yammer. The ground crew, the flight crew, the people throughout the terminals can, real time, be problem-solving to make sure that they are always delivering the absolute best experience.
Callaway Golf, leading provider of high-end golf products around the world, using Azure to deliver their services down to their customers and to their employees, also using Intune to manage the executive laptops and their sales force iPads around the world, amazing capabilities.
So as you think from Microsoft and you ask the question what is Microsoft enterprise mobility platform? Office 365, combined with the Enterprise Mobility Suite all built on top of Azure Active Directory. That will give you the ability to enable your users on all their devices and extend your identity out to all the applications across the cloud that they want to use. This is, bar none, the most comprehensive solution to enable your users on all their mobile devices and please take a look at it.
So what we talked about today is we truly are living in a world that is focused on mobility, that’s focused on cloud. You can see that we believe deeply in this. We believe deeply in mobile-first, cloud-first. You can see that our innovation agenda is completely wrapped into this. And we’ll focus on how we enable you to embrace this starting from where you’re at today.
Thank you for coming to TechEd. Thank you for enabling us to partner in your business. It means a lot to us. And you know what, together let’s go build the mobile-first, cloud-first enterprise. Thank you. 
  Thank you. Well, we are now establishing that all of you speak English much better than I speak German. But a big thank you to Shelly. It’s terrific to have her here in Berlin and in Germany leading our team here.
Thank you all for coming this evening. I wanted to take some time this evening and talk to you about an issue that’s obviously of great importance to our industry, which is the issue of trust in computing. And, specifically, how we go about thinking about and, frankly, rebuilding trust when it comes to the computer industry? 
It’s an important topic, not surprisingly, for those of us at Microsoft. If you think about Microsoft, we’re a company that next year will be 40 years old. That’s a bit of a challenge because we like to think of ourselves as a young company. But I think when you approach the age of 40, that gets increasingly difficult. 
Now, in a sense, if you go back to the company’s founding, many people are aware of the fact that it was created by these two individuals, one of them graduated from college and the other dropped out. Bill Gates dropped out. He joined Paul Allen. And they went off to create this company they named Microsoft. 
And they did it with a particular vision in mind. It was a vision that said that there would be an opportunity for somebody to create what people would think of as a genuinely personal computer. 
This was actually a radical idea at its time in 1975. Because when Bill and Paul first had this notion, computers were about the size of this room. And, in fact, when they went out and they said that they were going to create a personal computer, their first vision statement was that they would make it possible, eventually, for there to be a computer on every desk and in every home. That was Microsoft’s first tagline, if you will. 
Now, at the time, the CEO of the second largest computer company in the world said, and I quote, “There is absolutely no reason that anyone would ever want to have a computer in their home.” That company no longer exists, which is probably not a surprise. 
And, yet, here we are 39 years later and certainly in countries like Germany and cities and capitals like Berlin, there are computers on most desks, and there are computers in most homes. 
Not only that, there are computers in most pockets or most purses. It’s the computer that we call our smartphone. 
So we’ve entered a world where these computing devices offer tremendous promise and power for people. And, yet, here we are in the year 2014 at precisely a moment when you might think we would stop and celebrate what computing can do for people as genuinely personal devices. And, instead, we’re confronting a moment of great questioning, of uncertainty, even of controversy for this technology. 
And the issues that are raised are fundamentally about trust. Now, in many respects, these issues predate last June when Edward Snowden took four laptops and got on a plane from Honolulu to Hong Kong. But, of course, these issues have been changed perhaps forever by virtue of the disclosures of the last 11 months. 
And what I want to do is offer a little bit of a personal reflection on what we’ve been working through at Microsoft as these issues have arisen. But more importantly, I’ll talk about the broader issues that are raised and what we need to think about as we move forward. I’ll talk a little bit about what we’re doing as a company to address them. And I’ll talk about our views about what the United States and other governments need to do, in our view, to address them. 
I’ll talk about how they connect to broader issues of privacy. And I’ll talk about, finally, how, in a sense, this is a global issue that is going to require genuine international discussion if we’re going to make real progress. 
Government Surveillance Issues 
Like you, we at Microsoft first started reading about these stories in the news last June. And to be honest, when we first read about them, we frankly found them rather confusing. Because they started to talk about a program at the National Security Agency, the NSA, called PRISM. And one of the first stories that was written said that companies across the IT sector, including Microsoft, were part of this PRISM program. 
We had no idea we were a member. We had never volunteered. No one had informed us that we were involved. 
And it was, frankly, one of the more challenging issues we’ve had to deal with because, as you can imagine, you get a phone call from a journalist, the journalist has a document, the document has your company’s name on it, but you’ve never seen the document. You’ve never met the person who wrote it. You may not even know who wrote it and you’re left trying to decipher it. 
Well, in order to decipher it, one actually needs to go, frankly, talk to the United States overnment in some instances. And it turns out that often times the information is classified. So it becomes a bit of a mysterious exercise even to sort it out. 
One of the biggest challenges that we found ourselves facing as a company last June, July, and August — which I think we felt we were facing together with other companies in our industry — was trying to make sense of what was being reported. Because what was being reported was that the NSA had amassed a very large database of people’s information. 
And, yet, what we knew was that we had responded to what we felt was a, relatively speaking, small number of legal orders to provide content and other data to the government. 
And we had a hard time reconciling how there could be such a large database, on the one hand, when we had provided a relatively small amount of data on the other. 
To this day, most of us in the industry feel that the key that unlocked that mystery was probably a story that was published in the Washington Post on the 30th of October last year. Because on that day, the Washington Post, a fellow named Bart Gellman, one of the individuals who just won a Pulitzer Prize, reported that the NSA either by itself or in collaboration with another government had tapped or hacked into the data of Yahoo and Google. Not with their permission. In fact, not even with their knowledge. 
And while, of course, to this day we don’t know everything about what happened, we don’t have any evidence because no one has ever told us that any similar thing happened with Microsoft or other companies, we naturally have had to assume that that is likely to have been the case. 
And if nothing else, it explains how we could provide relatively little information and the government could, nonetheless, end up with quite a bit. 
And that has really led us as a company, sometimes on our own and sometimes in collaboration with others in our industry, to focus on what we felt we needed to do. 
And the steps that we’ve taken have broadly fallen into a few different categories. The first category is steps we feel that we’ve been able to take as a single company. Now, some of these steps are actually similar to steps being taken by other companies, and that, broadly speaking, is a good thing. And in some areas, we’ve taken steps that others have not, or at least not yet. 
Microsoft’s Steps to Protect against Government Snooping 
You know, the first step we took was to announce in late November that we would strengthen the encryption protection for all of our services. We would double the encryption key length for our services, and we would implement this by the end of calendar year 2014, this year, and we would do it for what’s referred to as “data in transit” — data that’s moving along a cable, for example — and data at rest – data that is stored on a server computer in a datacenter, for example. 
That seemed to be a right first step. If one is trying to protect against hacking of customer data, encryption is certainly one of the best steps that we can take to make that substantially more difficult. So we announced that step. 
A second step that we announced at the same time is that we would open transparency centers around the world so that government officials who were concerned about our source code could come in and inspect the code. 
Our policy is very simple and it’s clear: We have no back doors to our software. We do not provide governments with encryption keys to our software. We do not help governments break encryption for our software. But we understand that, especially in light of the disclosures of the last year, people have questions. They want to see for themselves. 
And governments, of course, in the current day and age have very sophisticated tools that they can use. And we have tools that we can let them use as well to inspect our source code. 
So we said we would open new transparency centers to permit them to do that. We are opening such a center in Brussels so that governments across Europe can come and take a look themselves. 
In a sense, this fits, for us, in a broader array of steps we’re trying to take. And it’s reflected, frankly, even in where we’re sitting and meeting this evening. We are clearly in an era where it is more important that technology companies like Microsoft be more accessible to people, that we make it easier for people to come and interact with us. We need to create venues where we can have real conversations and share more information and let people see technology in new ways. What you see in Berlin here this evening is one vey concrete manifestation of this kind of step. 
Now, so far, we’ve created this kind of center in Berlin and Brussels and Beijing and Washington, D.C. And we hope to do it in other places as well. And these transparency centers are one of the most concrete steps we can take to enable governments to inspect what we are doing. 
We did a third thing in November as well. And it was interesting because when we announced it, almost no one paid attention at the time. And in hindsight, it’s a little bit surprising because by January, what we had started to do in November became front-page news in the Financial Times and around the world. 
We announced in November that we would put contractual commitments behind the steps that we were taking to protect customers. And, specifically, we said that we would put two kinds of provisions in our contracts. The first is we would pledge to enterprise customers — which include governments, businesses, NGOs — that if the U.S. or other governments came to us in a national security investigation, for example, seeking their customer content, we would turn the government down. 
And we would tell the government that instead of coming to us, they should go to the customer. And in a sense, the rationale for this is pretty straightforward. In a national security investigation, a government almost always is investigating not an organization, but individuals – individuals who are suspected of engaging in terrorist activity or threats to public safety or national security. 
And if it happens to be the case that such an individual works for an employer, then our view is that the government should go to the employer and ask the employer for that information, not Microsoft, simply because we happen to have a datacenter where that content for that employer happens to be stored. 
So we said we would commit contractually that we would tell governments this, and if we needed to do so, we would go to court in the United States and litigate to uphold the right of the customer to be informed and make that decision. 
Now, as you all well know, some of these issues are covered by national security classifications, so I can’t always talk about everything. But I can say this: We have never, not even once as a company, been obliged to turn over to the United States overnment in any kind of national security matter the content of such an enterprise customer without first notifying the customer and getting the customer’s consent. We have never been obligated to do that. And we’ll continue to take the position that we should not have to do so in the future. 
Now, there was a second contractual promise that we said we would make in November as well. We said that we would take the position with the United States overnment that if it sought to serve a warrant on Microsoft, seeking data that was exclusively held in a datacenter outside the United States, that we would go to court to argue that U.S. warrants do not reach beyond U.S. territory. 
And this was printed in the Washington Post, it devoted all of one paragraph to it. And interestingly enough, it wasn’t until I was in Brussels in January talking with the Financial Times when a reporter asked the obvious question, “Oh, does that mean you have the ability to keep this data in datacenters outside the United States?” 
And I explained how we had made this promise to enterprise customers and for enterprise customers, we absolutely — in Europe — have this ability. We have a datacenter in Ireland, we have a datacenter in the Netherlands. We’re building other datacenters around Europe. And we can ensure that the content data, the e-mail for example, the Word documents, the Excel files, everybody’s PowerPoint slides in a service like Office 365, if you’re a European enterprise customer, actually remains in Europe. 
And the next day or the day after, the front-page Financial Times headline was all about Microsoft protecting customers by shielding data from entering the United States. So that is the kind of step that we have felt it’s important to take. 
And in other parts of the world, we will have to complete the construction of certain datacenters in order to ensure that on some other continents, we can offer to them what we’re already offering to enterprise customers in Europe. But we’re focused on moving down that path. 
So you can see this combination of steps – stronger encryption, transparency centers, contractual promises, hosting and keeping content data outside the United States and in Europe. We’ve taken steps to offer customers the kind of steps, the kind of protection that we have heard loud and clear people are looking for. 
So that’s the first area we’ve focused on. And, to be honest, this is not something where I think one can stand here in late May and say, “We’re done.” Because this issue is continuing to evolve. New questions may arise. And we recognize as a company that if customers have needs, we need to be prepared to meet them. And it’s, frankly, through the kinds of conversations that I have had in a place like Berlin today that we’re able to keep thinking about additional steps we might need to take. But that’s the first thing we’ve focused on. 
The Need for Law and Policy Reform 
The second thing that we have focused on is the reform of law and policy in the United States. Because we believe that law and policy have been in need of reform. 
Now, this was really galvanized for our industry, the IT sector, by the Washington Post story at the end of October that I mentioned. 
We had been talking with each other in the industry. I had been talking with my counterparts, the other general counsel in the industry. We felt that there was a common sense of concern at the same time that it was unclear to us what had really been happening. 
And it was that Washington Post story that really, I think, was almost something of a political earthquake across the IT sector. It really galvanized companies to come together and advocate together for reform of government surveillance rules. 
Basically, within a month of that story, eight companies came together. Companies like Microsoft, Apple, Google, Facebook, Yahoo, Twitter, LinkedIn and the like — AOL. And we announced a set of principles that we said we would advocate in Washington, D.C. together. 
We said, for example, that there needed to be more transparency, that there needed to be greater controls put in place. There had to be better accountability. In short, there needed to be some broad reform of government surveillance laws in the United States. 
And we have started to see some steps emerge. And in our view, more steps are needed. I think that is the right way to think about the state of this field in the United States when it comes to government policy and U.S. law. Steps have begun to emerge; more steps are needed. 
President Obama met with technology executives at the White House in the middle of December. I was one of the individuals present for that meeting. He had a group of experts that he had arranged to advise him between September and December. He gave a speech in Washington, D.C. on the 17th of January. In that speech, I do believe that President Obama framed one aspect very well. He said that the country needed to think about a new balance – a balance between national security on the one hand and personal privacy on the other. 
If you think about American history, it has certain similarities to history in Europe and elsewhere. It is not unusual in a time of war or national emergency for the pendulum to swing towards stronger protection of national security. And then, inevitably, invariably, the pendulum swings back. 
In the United States, this first happened in the Napoleonic War when the nation was only on its second president. It happened in the Civil War in the 1860s. It happened in World War II when President Roosevelt took the extraordinary step of interning Japanese Americans solely because they were Japanese American. 
And yet, after each of those episodes ended, people stepped back. The moment of crisis passed, and there was a broader debate. People asked themselves: What was the right balance for the future between national security and personal privacy? 
In the same way, I think President Obama was right to say in January that the moment for such a debate had arrived. In fact, one might well suggest that the moment arrived a few years ago and that this debate was overdue. But it is an important debate, it is a healthy debate, and it is a debate that needs to take place. 
Now, President Obama’s speech in January was long on principle, but a bit short in terms of concrete steps. And I think what’s interesting for all of us to think about is the concrete steps that have been taken since his speech, and the concrete steps that, in my opinion, still need to be taken. 
One of the issues that had galvanized our industry was the need, in our opinion, for greater transparency. When these issues first arose last June, Microsoft and other companies called for the ability to publish what we had been doing in terms of complying with government national security orders. The government said no. 
We sued the United States government last July. That’s not something we did lightly. You’re always reluctant, to be honest, to sue a government, any government, especially a government of a big country. And so we were very thoughtful about doing it. But we felt that we had a right under the First Amendment to the Constitution to publish information about the national security orders that we were receiving. Google filed a lawsuit as well. 
We had negotiations with the Department of Justice last summer. Those negotiations collapsed in August. But, interestingly, the night before the President’s speech, on the 16th of January, we got a phone call from the Department of Justice. The Department of Justice said that it wanted to settle the case. That was not a coincidence, obviously. This was coming from the White House putting the on a different path. 
And so by the 3rd of February, we had that settlement in place and we were able to publish more information. Under the terms of that settlement, we can publish information about the number of orders that we receive and the number of accounts that are affected. And we can do it for periods of six months. And we can do it in what are called buckets of 1,000. So I can tell you we either got zero to 1,000, or 1,000 to 2,000, or 2,000 to 3,000, et cetera. And we have to wait six months until the period ends, but then we can get this information out in public. 
So on the 3rd of February, we filed our first public report. It was for the first half of calendar year 2013. What it showed, for example, is that we had received fewer than 1,000 orders from the FISA court, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Activity ourt. And those orders affected between 15,000 and 16,000 accounts. 
Now, that may be fewer than 15- to 16,000 people because one individual can have more than one account. But it started, for the first time, to give the public real information and insight at least into the magnitude of the number of orders we were receiving and accounts that were being affected. It was, in our opinion, a first step. 
Now, a second step that was clearly of substantial importance related to the overnment’s program with telephone companies in the United States, the bulk collection of metadata. And as you may recall, on the 17th of January, President Obama said that the overnment would review that program. He made no promises or commitments as to what that review would conclude. 
Since January, the overnment has concluded that it wants to end that bulk collection program. I think that’s a positive step. It is a second step that the U.S. overnment needs to take. 
In my opinion, in our view as a company, there are at least four additional steps the U.S. overnment needs to take. One is to expand transparency further. You know, the current regime, arguably, works reasonably well for larger companies, but is not as well suited for smaller companies or startups. That’s why our group of companies and the industry more generally has been united in encouraging Congress to amend the law to permit greater transparency. So that work is continuing. 
A second step that is needed, in our view, is reform of the FISA court. This court may have been the right court in 2002 or 2003. We do not believe it provides the right recipe for 2014 or 2015 or beyond. 
Why? Well, there are several aspects of the way the FISA court works that, frankly, are just out of the mainstream for the judicial process in the United States, in Western Europe, or in a number of other countries. 
It’s a court that meets in secret. It is not our legal tradition to have courts that meet in secret. It’s part of our legal tradition to have documents that are confidential filed under seal, but that’s very different from an entire court that meets in secret. 
Second, this court has only 15 judges, all of whom are picked by one person, the Chief Justice of the United States. Now, all of these individuals are judges who have been previously confirmed as district judges, but that is not the way our judicial system is designed to work. It’s designed to enable a broader array of judges to deal with issues. 
Third, this is not a court that is based on what we in the United States would call the “adversary process.” In the United States, the fundamental underpinning of our judiciary is that you let a lawyer for each side stand up before a judge and articulate their point of view. In the FISA court, there’s only one lawyer representing one party, and that’s the United States overnment. That is not good enough. We need a genuine adversary process. 
Fourth, in the United States, as in Europe, there’s a tradition: hen a court makes a decision, it publishes it. This is important. It’s healthy for the development of the law. Lawyers, professors, jurists all get to read the decisions. They get to comment on it. The legislature is able to see what the courts are deciding. That has not been true for the FISA court. And, in fact, as a couple of the court’s decisions have been published over the last year, it has become more apparent to the legal community in the United States that some of the decisions, perhaps, were not as well reasoned as they might have been – as they would have been if more people had had an opportunity to offer a point of view.
So this is a second area where we think the law of the United States continues to need to be reformed. 
Third, we believe that the United States overnment needs to recognize that United States law ends at United States borders. And in one particular context, we’re quite concerned that the U.S. overnment is going to magistrates in the context of national security cases and seeking warrants that are then, in effect, applied to data — content data — that reside in other countries. 
For that reason, we brought a second lawsuit against the United States overnment. This one is in ederal ourt in New York. After a magistrate approved a warrant seeking customer data for an Outlook.com account that is in Ireland, we contested it. And we said we did not believe that the magistrate acted properly. 
Well, the magistrate, who is the first person in the process, decided that he had acted properly, it was his warrant, after all. But that’s just step one. You know, we’ve now appealed that decision, sought a stay of it, and are now taking it to the district judge. And we will, I am certain, take that decision to the ourt of ppeals in New York if we need to do so. 
And that is exactly the kind of case that might eventually find its way to the Supreme Court. It is a case that I believe we can and should and will win at the end of the day. 
Why do I think that? I think that for a number of reasons. First, under U.S. law, warrants are typically, in fact always, interpreted as being applicable only to execution within United States territory. So this is an extraordinary situation when a warrant is being served on Microsoft and we’re being told to go look in a datacenter somewhere outside the United States. 
Second, courts in the United States follow a principle that says that they assume that Congress intends laws to apply only within the territory of the United States, unless Congress quite explicitly and quite directly says that it intends to apply a law more broadly. There is no language in this statute nor in the legislative history that suggests that Congress for a moment contemplated in 1986 that it wanted to apply this warrant provision around the world rather than just in the United States. 
Third, we believe we have an argument, indeed a strong argument, under the Fourth Amendment to the Constitution. The Fourth Amendment is something that’s been on the books since 1790 and it gets discussed in various times. And suddenly we find ourselves addressing it as I think one of the very important issues for the 21st century. 
What the Fourth Amendment does is it guarantees to the people the right to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects from unreasonable search and seizure. And it further says that when the overnment issues a warrant, it must specify with particularity the place to be searched and the things to be seized. And we believe that a warrant that is served on a company that says, “Look everywhere on the planet if you must,” is the opposite of a particular warrant specifying the place to be searched. So we will argue this on Constitutional grounds as well. 
And, finally, there are important public policy considerations. Considerations that go to the comity between nations that the federal courts have typically considered as well. 
So we will go forward and we will fight that fight and we will take it to the Supreme Court if we need to, to ensure that we can offer our customers around the world the kind of legal rights that we believe they need and deserve. 
Finally, there’s one other thing that we continue to look for from the United States overnment. We want a commitment. We want a statement from the United States overnment that it is not going to seek to hack its way into the datacenters or cables of American companies or other legitimate IT providers. 
There may have been a moment in time, perhaps, that someone thought that that was necessary shortly after 9/11. We actually would not have signed on for that proposition even then. Because if there’s one thing that we’ve believed throughout it is that national security is of great importance, but it needs to be addressed pursuant to the rule of law and legal process. And this aspect of what appears to have been governmental activity needs, in our view, to be brought back within a proper legal framework. So we’re looking for that as well. 
So when I look at the journey — and it is a journey, in my opinion — for reforming policy and law in the United States, I am encouraged that the government has started to move. I’m pleased that President Obama has started to put the nation on a better path. But this is not a journey that we can declare to be complete until important additional steps are taken. 
Use of Personal Data by Companies 
Now, I’d also like to talk about a third aspect of this, which I also think is important. And that’s the data that is held not by the government but by companies. In a sense, I think we’re at a moment in time when we need to recognize that when we talk about privacy, we’re talking about issues that may appear distinct, but in fact they are two halves of a common whole. 
One half is fundamentally the relationship between the government and citizens in the context of surveillance. The other issue is the relationship between companies and consumers in the context of individual data, personal information that companies may have. 
One involves government, the other involves companies. One you might say involves citizens, the other involves consumers. But I think it’s important to reflect on the fact that there is a common label, a common word that is applicable to both citizens and consumers. It’s called “people.” 
And in an era where technology is so important, where people entrust so much of their sensitive information with their devices and in the cloud, it is perfectly reasonable to think about both of these issues together. 
Now, I often find myself in the United States answering the skeptical questions of others in our industry who challenge me and say, “You don’t get it, people don’t care about privacy anymore.” 
Well, sometimes I encourage them to come to Berlin or Paris or Brussels or other places where it is absolutely clear after even a few moments of conversation that privacy is alive and well. 
But I actually believe that privacy is far more alive and well in the minds of consumers in the United States than many people in our industry recognize. It is alive and well. But its meaning has changed. 
Traditionally, in the United States at least, when someone said, “I want to keep my information private,” what they really meant, in all likelihood, was that they wanted to keep their information secret. 
And, in fact, that’s how U.S. law evolved over the centuries. You had a reasonable expectation of privacy that entitled you to Constitutional protection under the Fourth Amendment if you had a reasonable expectation that your information was going to remain secret. 
So, of course, with the invention of services such as Facebook, it was easy for people to say privacy must be dead, people must no longer care about it, because these people are not keeping their information secret. They’re sharing it. That part is true. 
But I don’t believe that this means that privacy died. I believe that a new generation of people and, increasingly, an older generation of people adopted a new definition of privacy. For them, keeping information private did not mean keeping it secret. But it meant that people wanted to control who they shared information with and they wanted to control how those people would use the information that was shared. 
Think about Facebook. Yes, people are comfortable sharing information with their friends. But it doesn’t mean they’re comfortable sharing it with the world. That’s clear every day. And anybody who has ever thought that teenagers don’t care about privacy has never had to have the hard-fought negotiation with their own teenager about whether their teenager will allow their parents to be their friends on Facebook.  
My first privacy negotiation was in 2002 with the Federal Trade Commission in the United States. It was a far-easier negotiation than the one I had with my daughter in 2009.  And I think people have found this to be the case around the world. 
And if you don’t recognize this in Facebook alone, it’s fascinating to see other things that are changing across our industry. It’s fascinating to see a new service like Snapchat that was created by a 23-year-old. It exploded, and it had a principal value proposition that someone could share a photograph with friends, but the photograph would disappear. If that’s not a new standard, a new form of privacy, I don’t know what is. 
And I, therefore, think we have to recognize that privacy has an important future. I also think we need to recognize that privacy may have slightly — or more than slightly — different future in different countries or on different continents. Because different places have different histories, they have different traditions, they have different cultural values. And, personally, I believe that it is our job as a company and as an industry to serve the people of the world by recognizing their diverse needs, rather than expecting the diverse people of the world to all conform to a single technology standard. 
That’s why we as a company have been more supportive than some others in our industry of having a European Union privacy or data protection regulation. We do need a healthy future for privacy law. 
Common Questions for Governments and Companies 
Now, that leaves many questions unanswered. And I won’t try to give you all of the possible answers this evening. But I have, as we’ve thought more about this, increasingly concluded that there is a set of common questions that really applies on both sides of the ledger: government surveillance on the one hand, and company conduct on the other. 
And there are three especially. The first is what level of transparency will people have? Will people be allowed to know what governments are doing with respect to surveillance and what companies are doing with their information? 
We’ve been fighting the fight to open up transparency on the surveillance front. And I think, increasingly, companies including our own are going to need to take steps to ensure that information that we have about individual consumers is more readily accessible to them. So I think that’s the first question. What level of transparency will there be? 
I think there’s a second question, which is whether individuals in some appropriate way will be able to control how information is used. In the context of government surveillance, I believe that that control needs to be applied pursuant to the rule of law. It’s not as if individuals get to choose whether they’re investigated for violating the law. But as democratic societies, we should be able to choose and decide through our elected legislatures what our governments do. And we should rightly expect them to follow the law. 
Now, in the company context, there’s a different mechanism for control, it’s called a contract. And I believe that one of the important questions we’ll have to work through in the coming years is how to make systems like notice and consent more effective than they are today — or couple them with other regimes that will effectively give people more control over the use of their information. 
Finally, there clearly needs, in my opinion, to be accountability by people who are using the information of others. In the government surveillance context, the government needs to be accountable to the courts. That’s why, in our opinion, the reform of the FISA court is so important. 
And in the company context, there needs to be accountability to the law in the form of regulation. And that’s why these discussions about regulation, in fact, are so important. And, increasingly, I believe, we have the opportunity to pursue this discussion in a way that takes stock of what we’re learning on each side of the ledger and apply it to the other.
The Need for Better International Collaboration 
There is, then, a fourth and final thing that I believe will become an increasingly important part of this conversation as we move forward. That is the need for international collaboration. Ultimately, we need to respect the fact that there are different parts of the world that may make different decisions, at least when it comes to how they think about a fundamental value like privacy and how they implement that in their own law. 
But all of this needs to be pursued pursuant to a rule of law. And, increasingly, we need to have more legal processes that enable countries and governments to come to an understanding together. 
One of the arguments that the government’s lawyers made in the New York case about the warrant is that they should be able to use a warrant because the existing legal process that applies internationally, the so-called mutual legal assistance treaties, or MLATs, are outdated. They’re difficult. They’re cumbersome. 
There’s a lot of truth to the point that the MLAT process needs to be improved. But the right answer is not for the government to take the law into its own hands and seek to apply its law in other countries’ borders. The right answer is to improve the MLAT process. The right solution is for allies to come together and put in place new agreements if necessary to ensure that when investigators need information in another country, there is a legal process that satisfies the rights of individuals and enables governments to consult with each other. 
If one wants to avoid friends spying on friends, and I believe that’s an important goal, then part of the answer is for friends to come together to put in place a better process to address these kinds of issues. 
And in the same vein, we’re going to need new international forms of collaboration when it comes to cross-border data flows, when it comes to company use as well. You know, we’ve had the EU safe harbor agreement with the United States. That’s been a good step forward. 
But as we’ve found as a company, we can go farther. You know, that’s why Microsoft became the first, and today remains the only, company to have obtained from the Article 29 working group the approval of the data protection authorities across Europe for our so-called model clauses. 
It is an example that it is, indeed, possible for people to take new steps, for companies to push themselves, and for countries to work across borders in a more effective way. That, too, is an important part of the solution. 
Conclusion 
Finally, in conclusion, I would say this: I can’t help but think about this issue without thinking back to our roots. 
If you ask anybody who has been at Microsoft for a long time, somebody like me who has been there for 21 years, a big part of the reason we came to the company, a big part of the reason we’ve stayed at the company, is we’re genuinely excited about what the personal computer did for people and what technology advances have continued to do. 
But there’s a fundamental principle that we all need to continue to keep in mind. Technology is a tool. Technology is a tool that exists to serve people. It needs to meet the needs of people. It needs to recognize the diverse needs of people in different parts of the world. Technology is here to serve people. It’s not the other way around. And we need to ensure that it stays that way. Thank you very much.  
 Good morning, everyone, and welcome to our event in New York. I’ve had a chance to see many of you over the last couple of busy months, and you’ve been on our journey with a couple of events. And so it’s great to see many of you made it to the East Coast. It’s good to be on a different coast this time. 
I wanted to talk about our devices today. But I want to start by talking about the journey that we’ve been on. You heard me talk about our mobile-first, cloud-first strategy. And this is our focus for every device and every service that we launch at Microsoft. 
And over the last couple of months, you’ve seen us talk about various aspects of this strategy. We started off by talking about how our cloud enabled everyone on every device. This is what we did when we launched Office 365 and Office Apps on the iPad. 
We also talked at that event about our enterprise mobility suite, which enables enterprise IT to enable access to corporate information on any device. 
We also had a major event around our data platform. This was the event at which we talked about creating this new platform for ambient intelligent experiences, as well as how one goes about creating a data culture within an organization using these data platforms. 
And then lastly, at Build, which is our developer conference, we talked about the advances in Windows and our Azure platform on the cloud. We talked about how, in particular with Windows, we were advancing on every dimension from form factors to business models to experiences for both people, IT and developers. 
Today is the next step on that journey. We want to talk about devices and hardware. But it starts for us with this obsession of empowering every individual and organization to do more and be more. That is what we at Microsoft are all about. This is what is the unifying theme for the company across everything that we do. 
We want products and technologies that enable people to dream and get stuff done. We want products and technologies that enable people to be able to get more out of every moment of their life. That’s the mission that we’re on. 
The motivation for this comes from really looking at people in real life. When you see a doctor doing a diagnosis and making important, but rapid decisions. When you see an architect do a design for a building. When you see a student create a trip report. A busy professional or a parent organize their life and their time and communicate. All of those activities act as the motivation for what we want to do at Microsoft. 
That’s what has led us to build the ubiquitous software products that we’ve built to date. Take Office with over a billion users of Office. That’s the motivation for it. 
And of course now we’re extending it with Office 365 and services like Skype, OneNote, OneDrive, to really take that notion of productivity forward in a mobile-first world. 
It’s just not us. In fact, we have many, many partners who also equally obsess about creating these software services for productivity. You take Adobe and Autodesk and SAP and Intuit on the other end of business process. All of them are also building software that is all about enabling and empowering people to do stuff. 
So that’s what leads us to today’s discussion. The question that needs to be asked and answered is: Why hardware? We clearly are not interested in building refrigerators or toasters. We are not building hardware for hardware’s sake. We want to build experiences that bring together all the capabilities of our company from our cloud infrastructure to our application services to our hardware capabilities to build these mobile-first productivity experiences. That’s the mission. 
We’re building new strength and capability around that alchemy of being able to bring hardware and software together. And the Nokia close really gives us that extra strength to be able to do that. 
We’re not interested in competing with our OEMs when it comes to hardware. In fact, our goal is to create new categories and spark new demand for our entire ecosystem. That’s what inspires us and motivates us with what we’re doing in our devices and hardware. 
And today is a major milestone on that journey. It starts with dreaming the impossible, of can we design and build a device that takes the best of the tablet and the laptop and enables any individual to be able to read, and to be able to create and write. Allows you to watch a movie and make a movie, enjoy art and create art. That’s the device that we want to create. That was the motivation for the Surface line. 
And today, we have a major step forward on that dream and that mission. And to really show you what we’ve done over the last year or so on that dream, I want to invite up on stage Panos Panay, he and his team have been really driving this quest forward. Panos? Come on up.  
 What’s up, dude? Good to see you. Thank you, it’s always awesome to come up here and talk, and the privilege to talk after Satya is something that is almost dream-worthy. 
I will tell you, starting every time I stand up here and I stand in front, and then all this flash and so forth, the truth is, it’s a humbling experience every time. And I’m humbled because I get to represent the Surface team specifically and they work so hard around the globe to bring these products to you alongside. 
It’s a beautiful thing, but there’s a little bit more to this product. And it’s not just the Surface team that I get to represent today. It’s all of Microsoft. It’s been an amazing journey for Surface for sure, but when you think about all the hard work that you’re going to see that happened in this device, amazing work by Windows and Office and Skype, OneDrive, even Microsoft Studios all coming together. Representing that is one of these feelings that you get as a leader and it gets you pretty excited. 
What also gets you excited is when you have somebody who is pushing you to dream the impossible. Just push you. Like, go do it. Do more. Get it done. That kind of jacks you up and you get excited about it, no doubt. 
And then you look back at the mission that Surface started, and it was all about that. As a matter of fact, our first catch phrase was: Click in and do more. We had this vision, this dream. We wanted to push forward with this thing called a tablet and this device, but help people be able to get more done on it. I don’t think that was dreaming the impossible just yet, but it was a step forward, and it was a good start. 
And then we launched Surface Pro 2 and Surface 2 and some of you started to write nice things. That was really nice, by the way. It super helps when you write nice things. 
And the team gets motivated and excited. And Microsoft, in general, just goes, “God, they kind of like this thing, that’s cool.” 
And a couple of you made some fun quotes and nice stuff. And, by the way, we’ve read plenty of negative, and we learn and we grow and we take and we feed and we feed and we get better. There is no question. 
And while it’s all interesting, it gets so much more important to think about what people are actually doing with the device. We don’t actually design the device for us in this room. We design it for people who use it every day. Super important to understand that. 
And when you talk about dreaming the impossible, when you say those words, it’s better to look at the customers who do that, the people who use your device every day. So much more intriguing and inspiring. So we put together a few stories for you just to see a little bit of what Surface has done and some of the impact it’s had to the people around us. Take a look. 
  That’s cool, right? I mean, it’s super inspiring when you see stuff like that. For me and for the team, when we get to feel that and people really using your device and people using it to make a change and to make things great, it’s pretty awesome. 
But let’s take a step back for just a minute and let’s deal with some reality. Three years ago, three years ago, there were a bunch of people in a room just like that right here, like this, that were writing stories. And a lot of those stories looked like there’s this thing called tablets and they’re coming and they’re going to kill the laptop. It’s going to change everything. That was supposed to happen — for sure. 
And a person like me sits back and we start putting road maps together and you start designing products knowing that this wave is coming. And then everybody is going to be in a press conference three years later using their tablets. 
Just look around for one minute. It is super fascinating. Seriously, look around. I saw one, there might be two, for sure there’s plenty of MacBook Airs in for good reason.  What happened? What happened? 96 percent of you who have iPads in your bag right now are also carrying laptops. I’d guess it’s 100, we just can only prove to 96.  
That’s a reason for that. Let’s just talk about the reason. It’s not bad, it’s good. But there’s a reason. Just think it through with me. 
Tablets, from a product-making standpoint, tablets, they’re designed for you to sit back and watch movies. They’re designed to read books. They’re made for browsing the Web, snacking on apps, those are interesting. Laptops are not designed that way at all. They’re designed to help you get stuff done. They’re designed because you actually need to do things. 
They’re designed because when you’re sitting where you are right now, you have to capture the thoughts I’m trying to say. They’re designed for editing, they’re designed for making. That is a point of view that’s true, and sometimes they come out clunky, and sometimes they come out beautiful. But either way, there’s a design point. And they’re made for that reason. That’s happening. 
But it gets even a little bit more tricky. We just did this. We did this. We made products. And you learn this thing was called “all-day battery life” and it blew you away. And you’re, like, I could use this thing all day. And then when I push the button, it’s still there. I mean, it does so much. 
But then that started to blur, too. But was it the tablet? Was it the laptop? Which one was it that worked all day? And which one do I need to use every day? It’s super interesting. 
But then that complex started to push itself into people. People. Isn’t that what matters? Isn’t that what we designed them for? Not for us, but everybody. 
And then they’d walk into a store. And it doesn’t matter what store. Let me be super clear about that. It does not matter what store you walk into, the conflict exists. It exists. You walk into a store and you walk up to the sales person. And you can stand between two very clear tables and ask a question: What is it that I’m supposed to buy? 
And most do, because not everybody knows everything about anything and everything about everything, and people are learning at all times, which is wonderful. And when they walk in, they say, “What am I supposed to buy?” What does the sales rep say almost every time, almost every time, what do they say? Does anyone know? I’m sure you’ve asked. You report on things like this. The response is so common it’s uncanny. It’s so simple, yet so complex. 
The response is this: What is it that you want to do? I don’t know. I’m about to spend $1,000. I thought I needed to do everything. And that’s how you feel. But why? That happened because of the conflict that we’re creating every day. And does that conflict need to exist? You’ve been told to buy a tablet, but you know you need a laptop. And that’s happening. That’s a real conflict. 
You walk into the store, that conflict is right in front of you. And sometimes you buy two things. Turns out, 96 percent of the time you buy two things. Maybe not on that day, but you definitely come back when you didn’t have what you needed. And why? 
So today we’re going to focus on that and only that. Taking that conflict away. We have to remove it. People need that. But to do it, it’s just not that simple because it would have been done already, wouldn’t it? 
To do it, you’d have to have everything in one package. You’d have to not compromise anything when it came to performance. It would still have to be thin and light. This paradigm called battery life, using your products all day, always having it there for you, all that had to still be true. It had to be sexy, sleek, feel good, personal. All this stuff. All of it in one package. It all had to be there. 
Maybe it had to be a little bigger. Because, man, these small screens, they look small, and there’s a reason for that. They are. 
Today, we take the conflict away and I’m absolutely sure of that. I’d like to introduce you to Surface Pro 3.  
  Ladies and gentlemen, this is the tablet that can replace your laptop. Surface Pro 3. You can just see it over here really quick. Let’s take a quick look at that. Look at how thin it is. Not an illusion, it’s easy to do something like that on stage, done it plenty, but just take a look right here and how thin it is. And I’m just going to walk you through that in just a minute. 
So as a point of reference, the best way to kind of look at this device to start is use Surface Pro 2 because you can just kind of see the comparison. 
Surface Pro 2 packs a ton of punch. It has all the performance that you needed in your full laptop, and is as performant as anything on market. 
We then took that product, we took that exact same performance, increased it, pushed it from the 10.6 millimeters it started at and pushed it down to the 9.1 millimeters you see on stage. Pretty incredible. It is cool.  
And we designed in thinness around every corner. And I’m going to talk about that a little bit, and it’s really important that when you do it, you do it that way consciously because to make this the thinnest core product that’s ever been created, you had to take a lot of steps. 
But it’s not only the thinnest because you can always make something that’s thin. It’s not actually that complicated, but it is really challenging to keep it as powerful as you possibly can. This product, by definition, is faster than the Surface Pro 2 that you guys have loved so far to date. Yet it still holds all the thinness of any tablet you really need. 
But let’s talk about the screen for a minute because that’s pretty important. It’s an absolutely beautiful screen. And when you look at the Surface Pro 2 screen and its 16:9 aspect ratio and you look at the Surface Pro 3 screen, we’ve grown it to a 12-inch diagonal. 
Now, I want to explain that to you really quick. Pushing it to 12 inches was critical. If we want to do more, if we want to help people be more, if we want to be more productive, fitting right in between the tablet and the laptop and getting to the point where you can replace your laptop, this is a critical, critical element. 
12 inches, it is a beautiful screen. It’s a 3:2 aspect ratio, which we’ll talk about later. It’s something that hasn’t really been done before in this size. It’s a 2160×1440 display. We call it “pixel free.” It is the same clear-type technology that you’ve seen in Surface Pro 2. 
It’s optically bonded. It has the highest contrast ratios in the industry. Critical. Productivity, not a sexy word, I totally get it. But to be more productive, to help yourself do more, to get more done, the higher those ratios are, the less eye strain you have. 
I know it’s subtle, but it matters. It just means you get less tired. That’s super important. 
But just look at the screen. It is gorgeous. I can talk specs all day, and quite frankly, it doesn’t bore me, but it probably bores you. This product is beautiful. 
I want to come off of this really quick because the next question has to be: So you’ve made it bigger, it had to have gotten heavier. Absolutely not. As much as we designed in thinness, we designed in lightness. So important to understand that if we’re going to transform and push the industry and make new markets with devices that you need. Not “are told to buy” but that you need. You have to accomplish a great weight-to-thinness-to-size ratio. 
When you pick up this product, it feels beautiful. It feels beautiful. How important is that? When you hold it in one hand, it feels light. You have a perfectly equal distribution of weight through the product. You’ve seen that before in our products. It just comes out in droves on this product. 
The best way to really get a feel is to hold it. The second-best way is to kind of show it. So let me do that really quick. 
I’ll put the Surface here. I’m going to grab this MacBook here. And I just want you to look at that. It’s very important to understand. Yeah, kind of cool. Here it is. This product is a great product, of course, and the MacBook, I totally understand why it’s being used. But it is best-in-class when it comes to thinness and lightness. There is no debate. 
Now, we have a 12-inch screen. I want to compare it to the 13-inch for a reason. On our 12-inch screen, because of the beautiful screen and all of the rendering and the work of Windows to optimize it, with this screen, when you pick it up, you will look at it, it will feel great. The reason it will feel great is because we have optimized to the scaling of Windows perfectly. 
On this 12-inch screen, you get 6 percent more content than on this 13-inch screen. That is a factor of the ratio of 3:2 as well as the scaling. It is gorgeous. But to be super clear, we want you to take both those devices out of your bag. So you have to think about all the weight that happens with these devices. Very important to see that. 
Now, the question has to be: Why hasn’t this been done before? It should be that. And I think it’s a fair question to ask. And when we say it’s the thinnest core PC ever made, let me see if I can define that for you perfectly. We’ve partnered super close with Intel. It has been the closest thing to a technical love affair that I could possibly think of. 
We spent tireless hours together to put the core i7 in the new Surface Pro 3.  When I say “tireless” you think, well, doesn’t everybody put a core i7 in their product? Sure. Sure. But to pack it this thing, how do you do that? How do you get all the punch and performance in a product? Remember, 10 percent more performance than the Surface Pro 2 in this thin of a package. 
I can go through all 100 custom parts it took to do that. I won’t. I want to talk about one part. It’s probably the most significant of the parts. I’ll hold the device so you can continue to get a shot of it. But look at the fan that you see up there. We talk about fanless all the time. Fanless is an interesting concept. That was something people talked about three years ago when they talked about tablets. 
This thing is fanless. Another way to say fanless is “thin.” Another way to say fanless is “cool” to the touch. Another way to say fanless is you don’t feel the air. 
So what we designed in our product as you know from Surface Pro 2. Take a quick look at Surface Pro 3. Do you see that perimeter vent going around here? That same vent in Surface Pro 2, that same technology invented came into this small package. 
Then we reinvented the fan. We were able to make it 30 percent more efficient than any fan in any product today. Then we reinvented the fin on the fan, and we’re able to radially emit air throughout the entire product so you never feel it. You don’t hear it. You don’t even see it. 
Now, that seems simple, but super complex. I’m proud of the team, and I know there’s a bunch of MEs right now in Redmond going, “Thanks for saying that, that’s a big deal, you don’t know how hard and blah, blah, blah.” It’s great. It is amazing. 
But let’s talk about the next step. You can, again, talk about details all you want. But at the end of the day, every part had to come together perfectly to make it this thin. We call it “designed to fit.” But it doesn’t stop at design. It then goes to machining. We call that “machined to fit.” Every single unit that comes off the line, every single Surface Pro 3 that comes off the line is custom machined. 
We optically measure almost every part. We then machine down the beautiful magnesium that you see. We then put it together so we squeeze all air out with a pressurized cavity to control the air in the device itself. 
We then push and push and push and we built the thinnest optical stack ever built on a device this size at 0.75 millimeters. 
And then you say, “Well, what have you compromised? What have you taken away to do all that?” Nothing. You love your battery life on your tablet. This gets more performance than the Surface Pro 2, which got plenty of accolades. 
As a matter of fact, over 20 — 15 — there’s a number in there — percent more battery life in this product than any product Surface has shipped before. 
But then you say, “Well, then, didn’t the device get weaker? It’s a thinner piece of glass, isn’t it?” No, no, it’s the same unbelievably strong chassis that I’m about to drop, and it doesn’t break, and we don’t worry. You don’t worry at all.  It is the same product, the same build, the same finish, the seamless quality that you see where every line matters because if you’re going to make these devices personal, they have to be. 
I’m going to give this to you, Joanna, and there’s a reason I’m going to give it to you. The reason I’m giving it to you is because I read an article that you wrote on May 5th and I thought it was super inspiring. It was a little bit late, but it was inspiring. No, for me, it was a timely article, don’t get me wrong. 
But I’m going to give it to you because I want you to feel how light it is. I kind of want you to see the screen size as well. I can put this on the scale if you want, but it’s getting heavy up there.  You take that. Just take a look at it. And that’s for you to keep, by the way. 
 Wow. 
 Thank you so much. Yeah, that’s cool.  
If you’re going to talk about performance, if you’re going to talk about performance, let’s show some of that, shall we? Because it’s important. I just showed you a form factor that for sure is a tablet. It’s going to be hard to debate it. It’s beautiful. 
Let me introduce you to the Surface Pro 3 docking station. I’m going to take this device out, you can see it up there. Why is a docking station important? Well, you need performance at your desk as well. If you’re that mobile professional and you want to go kill it in the field, but then you come back and you’re going to dock and you’re going to use this as your full PC, this docking station lets you display out to a 4K monitor. Very important, right? 4K, super-hot buzzword right now, people. Pay attention. 4K is cool. 
You then go out and you display to your 4K and you can do full work. Now, what you’re seeing here is the full power of Windows and, again, the beauty of Windows. All the work happening there and the power of the full PC is here. And I’m showing it to you. 
There are four groups of apps here. You can see doctor up top. Now you see the architects. Then you see artists and Microsoft Office. The reason we put these four apps here is not because I’m a doctor or an architect or an artist. I am none of those things, I can only dream to be. 
There are doctors out there like Dr. Patel who inspire me continuously. It’s quite impressive what they do in saving lives, and I continue to be inspired by that. 
But it is to show you that this technology here is something that gets removed between the doctor and the patient. It’s the full power of the PC for collecting data and creating data, which is so important. 
But to show you the real speed, I’m going to open Revit here. And this is a really important thing because to show the full power of the PC, you have something like this, which is so powerful in building information, modeling tool, this is a big deal. Just watch how I click and it opens into the full model, how fast that is, very cool.  
And as I zoom into the scaled model, you can see me zoom with my mouse and keyboard, because presumably I’m docked at my desk. And I can use this full model as I please. I can touch the screen, of course, I can rotate it. I can do all the things that you would expect to do with both touch, mouse — and pen, which we’ll talk about in a bit — that show it off. 
Now, it’s not just inspiring to see the power of it. It’s also inspiring when you go and talk to customers and you show it to them. And you say you can do so much with this. I know you have your iPad. I also know it’s not working for a lot that you want it to work for. 
And when you sit down and you go hey — you sit with a company like Coca-Cola or LVMH or BMW and they get inspired by the opportunity to use this not only as their tablet but full-powered PC, you get inspired. 
But more inspiring than that is the work that people use this product for. And a lot of it is Photoshop. And today we’re going to bring a few things to you that you haven’t seen before that I’m super proud of. 
But I’m not the right person to do that. But I want you to notice that when this product is being used how powerful it is in the hand, how much work it can actually do for you, and how beautiful it really can be. 
I’d like to invite Michael Goff, the vice president of experience design from Adobe, to come up here and show you a little bit about what Photoshop is working on.  Hey, Michael. 
 Thanks, Panos. 
 Thanks for coming. 
 This is awesome. So I’ve got to start by telling you the first time I got my hands on this thing, I was blown away. If you take the power of Photoshop and you put it on a device like this, it’s a creative’s dream come true. This is everything, all I need, right here. 
You know, it’s a really great time to be a creative. Technology is bringing more mobility, more natural interaction and more expressiveness to all our tools. 
In fact, with the rapid pace of change, you’d think it would be hard for us to keep up. But between Microsoft and Adobe, we’ve got that covered. 
Our customers already love Surface Pro, but they told us they wanted Photoshop to take better advantage of the screen, the pen and the touch. 
One of the great benefits of moving to the creative cloud is that we can innovate faster. We can also deliver those innovations to our customers right when we’re done. Today, I’m going to show you one example. So this is a sneak peek of Photoshop CC optimized for touch on Surface Pro 3.  
The first thing you’re going to notice is the new interface. All the icons are 200 percent larger. It’s really, really easy to interact with the screen. The pen input is natural. The performance is great. Both the performance of the software and the hardware working together. 
My favorite is how easy it is to move around. I can pinch and zoom. We find that artists like to get really in close to work on the details, and then go right back out to look at the context. 
Panning is straightforward. It’s a lot more natural than using the scroll bars. And if you hold your fingers down for a second, you can pan, tilt, zoom, move around anyplace you want, get totally lost. It’s a lot like working with a piece of paper on a desktop. 
And if you do get lost, simple two-finger double tap takes you right back to where you started.  
So there’s a lot more in this upcoming version of Photoshop. So I hope you guys all try it. This is also just the beginning. There’s a lot more that I think you can expect from our partnership in the not-too-distant future, so stay tuned. Thank you.  
 Thanks, good work. That is super cool. It’s been great. We’ve been talking to a lot of developers. It’s been showing Surface Pro 3 to them, it’s been great that they’ve kept it under wraps. But when you get to such a high-resolution screen and you get to something so beautiful, things have to come together with the applications as well. And we’ll talk to that in just a minute. 
But before we do that, I want to talk about the kickstand. You probably wonder, why are you showing a picture of Anastasia on the screen? I don’t really have a good answer, I just wanted to introduce you to Anna. You guys seemed to like her last year when she did her Skype video, and I thought you’d want to see her again. 
I like using it this way because, obviously, my children are very special to me. And as they watch, I’m proud of them and I want to point out that Anastasia is an absolutely wonderful child. When you meet her, you would just — she is absolutely my favorite. And don’t judge me for that. I know you all have favorites, too. So don’t even say anything. At home, you know you all have favorites, it’s just a fact. My kids know, it’s just clear, she’s amazing. 
But look at what she’s doing in front of the Surface right now. Just look at what she’s doing. Sleeping, got it. But she’s watching Netflix, kind of. I’m a terrible father. Probably a terrible parent. My wife is here, she comes to these events with me. She’s clearly terrible as well, apparently. 
This is how we put Anastasia to bed, as it turns out. We put the Surface out, she loves it. She watches Netflix. So we call this “Anastasia mode.” It’s important to note that it was not a mode we designed for at all, but man, has it turned out very well. 
The kickstand does a lot here. It does a lot. It does a lot for a tablet. But it’s not just about a tablet, is it? Not at all. So I want to show you the new kickstand and introduce it to you, if that’s OK. 
I’m going to put it in Anastasia mode for just a minute. And you can see I just opened it. It was really that simple. And we hold it at a 22-degree angle in its first stop. It’s the original Surface angle. It’s been a fantastic angle for us, and it’s brought out a lot of new modes, just like Anastasia mode. 
But I want to show you a little bit more detail on what we’ve done. And I’ll explain why. But first, I’m going to show you a different mode, and it’s called canvas mode, and it’s a new one. But as I do this, watch underneath. As you watch the hinge of this product start to bend itself, and I’m going to show you what’s happening. Exactly what’s happening. Note, this product is three years in the making. This hinge has taken every single detail. The amount of custom parts to bring to you full friction so you can bring it all the way down at any position you want to land it at 150 degrees is intentful. 
It’s super important that you understand the modes that this product can do. Because if, Michael, you’re using Photoshop now and you are a creator, and if you needed a canvas to write on, and with every single detailed iteration that the design team worked on to pick the perfect canvas angle, we landed 150 degrees. And with an amazing palm block technology, you now can do the drawing you want to do if you were an artist. 
But is that what it was designed for? Anastasia mode? Was it designed for canvas mode? This hinge, why go through all the trouble? 
It’s a word we call “lapability.” Lapability is a coined term, of course, I’ve been super judged for it, which is really interesting, and blamed for making up words. And maybe we have, and that’s fine, you can write it again. But it is the word we use right now in our labs and as a team. 
We know that to really build a tablet that can replace the laptop, and when you asked that question, Satya, this is critical: It has to work in your lap. “Lapability.” 
Now, we thought it worked in your lap amazingly. Look at Joanna. She’s using it in her lap with her legs crossed. That’s just an accident, we didn’t practice this. It’s critical. But to get that right, let’s talk about something else. 
I want to introduce you to the Surface Pro type cover.  Beautiful product for sure. It’s gotten a lot of great accolades, if you will, from the typing feel and experience. It’s got a lot of accolades from thinness, and we’ve made it even thinner. Of course we made it thinner, because when you put this device in your bag, it has to feel as thin as any device you’ve ever had. And, by the way, it is by far, even with the cover on, the thinnest core product every created. 
But it doesn’t stop there. To really get it right, to really get productivity right, there are some great leaders in this industry that said it perfectly. You cannot compromise on the mouse or the typing experience, you just cannot. So we put a ton of energy into the track pad this time around. 
While we got a ton of praise — let’s be clear, we did not get any praise for our track pad.  I am super clear, I heard it, we heard it, oh, my gosh, did the engineers hear it? It’s unbelievable. This track pad is 68 percent larger than the previous track pad before it. We’ve reduced friction by 78 percent. We’ve almost reinvented it to the point where now the two-finger scrolling comes to life. You can start using all the power of Windows integrated into this track pad itself. 
And while I’m talking about the track pad and you’re, like, seriously, Panos, a track pad? Yeah. Seriously. Turns out, on a tablet, when there isn’t a pointer, it’s really hard to get stuff done. Really hard. And we kind of underestimate that. The power of Office, the power of Windows, all that comes with a mouse, it’s super important. 
Now, there’s stuff you can do from viewing and maybe some light editing, but be super clear, this is critical. 
Now, the typing experience, going back to it, we’ve lowered user fatigue. We’ve made it the fastest typing possible. We’ve created a great feel. But is it really just about that? Obviously not. It’s about being able to click in and use it on your lap. And so let’s talk about what we’ve done to change things. 
You’re going to take a look here. And what you’ll see is the classic view of Surface Pro 2. Note, what I mean by that is I’ve taken the second angle that we’re so familiar with and I’ve put it here on my knees. It’s pretty close. Given this is a friction hinge, I’m just kind of guessing, I can pick the angle I want now. 
But I want to show you something new that’s important. While people say Surface Pro 2 works on the lap, and I saw two of you — three of you using it on your lap, that’s great, that’s cool. It does work on your lap, I agree. But not perfect. This changes all of that. 
And the reason is because you get this looseness in your hinge. And when you’re typing, you kind of have to feel like, where should I put my — and there are too many thoughts. And when you put too many thoughts in a customer’s head, or a person who is using it, you really do find a place where they get stuck. And when you’re thinking too much, when it should be that simple, it doesn’t work. It’s one of the beauties of tablets. It’s one of the beauties of laptops. 
So I’m going to show you one simple move here that’s important. I’m about to click in the cover to the screen. And that’s going to stabilize it as good as any laptop you’ve ever used. And I want you to kind of see that happen. So watch here. This is what you’re looking at. Watch how it clicks in.
Now, that is subtle. But like we said before, sometimes the most subtle an innovation can have the largest impact. This now magnetically seals itself to the screen and it starts to change the way the device feels in your lap. The stability is unbelievable. 
When you start to change positions, I can change them in any way and I don’t lose any stability. I can put my hands on it just like this with my legs crossed. I can then change the friction hinge and drop it down just like this. I have the ability to pick any position I want and any angle I need. It sounds a lot like a laptop. 
And when you say, “Can a tablet replace the laptop?” We cannot underestimate how critical these elements are. I hope you thought that was pretty cool. We’re very proud of that hinge, and we’re proud of the team for doing that.  
Now, in designing a product, I’m going to leave this here for you to see. Just to be fair, give me just a second. I’m going to click a keyboard here so you can get a real view. Just to be super clear. OK. 
When you’re designing a product, you have to design something that feels unbelievably familiar. It has to feel familiar to people. We don’t talk about design a lot, and I’ve gotten into a lot of tech stuff, and I understand that. But hold on, pull back for just a minute, pull back. You have to know what you’re trying to accomplish. And sometimes you start with specs, and many times you start with customers, and a lot of times you just have goals for your products. 
But in this product, to really bring it to life, we wanted to give you something to make sure it was clear and build something that was just even more than that, that it was just familiar. And really, what is more familiar that a piece of paper? 
You’ve been using it your whole life. Your children, if you have any, they use them today. You send them to school with three-ring binders, there’s no doubt. You’ve had those spiral notebooks — do you remember those when you were kids? You had those. It’s super familiar. It looks a lot like a 3:2 aspect ratio, as it turns out. It looks a lot like this device. 
And the chemistry between the size of a piece of paper and a device like this, that’s not an accident. That’s a design point. And it’s a critical one for this device. It’s what makes it familiar. It’s what, then, makes it seamless. It’s what makes it personal. And one of the things about tablets, which we’re going to talk about now, is they have to be personal. Mainly because what you’re doing on it is just that. 
And so when you hold it, it also has to feel comfortable. And when you hold it and you’re holding a pen in your hand, it has to feel light. I know, Joanna, I’m sorry. You’ll get a pen and a keyboard in just a minute, I swear. Then we’ll switch out your device.  
This is an important posture. It is one that is very familiar, a piece of paper and a pen. And the pen looks familiar because it is the size of a pen that you’d normally hold. It’s not a stylus, it’s not meant to be thin, it’s not meant to be cheap, it’s meant to be pronounced as a pen. It feels weighty, it feels good, it’s meant to be the weight that it is. So when you write, it feels great. 
But writing on a PC is clunky. It’s true. It’s hard to use, and a lot of you have questions. Is anyone really going to write on a PC? Well, it doesn’t just mean writing. It takes experiences and apps. No doubt, you need to have great experiences. And no doubt, it’ll be those experiences that take the clumsiness out of this and make it feel organic and natural like a piece of paper. 
I’m going to open a fun app for you that I think is pretty inspiring, it’s pretty cool. And the head of development for the New York Times crossword is here, Matt, where are you? Hey, dude. You should be pretty proud of this app, it’s very cool. 
I’m going to show you the New York Times crossword app. And when I say things need to be personal, let me see if I can show you what that means. Does anyone in here do crosswords? I know some don’t want to admit it, but I know a lot of people do. The New York Times crossword is a classic, for sure. 
And when you look at this, I’m going to show you how pen and touch come together in such a beautiful way. But more importantly, in a natural way. If you look down here, you’ll see that I’m holding — going up and down on what would be the clues. I’m looking at one here, it’s called, “it’s pumped.” That’s a pretty cool clue. Now, if I know the answer to that, which I do, the first thing I would do is cross it out. That’s what you do when you’re doing a crossword, right? You cross out the clue. And you go up here, and watch how I personally write it in. This is my handwriting as I write it. 
Now, watch how it transfers itself to actual digital content. Did you see that?  That’s important. We took nothing personal away in showing this app, yet we’ve gone from an analog to a digital place, which is so critical in making that feel seamless. Pretty cool. 
Now, I’m going to show you something that’s a little bit more personal to me now which is kind of cool, and by the way, I’ll tell you what, Matt, you have this. And if you can solve that puzzle that you created by the end of the show, you can keep it. But if you don’t, I’m taking it back, just so you know.  
I’m going to talk about another application now, it’s called Final Draft. Final Draft is near and dear to my heart. I’m going to tell you why. I have a brother, he’s in the movie industry. He makes movies, his name, Andrew Panay. Him and Relativity have combined to create a movie that’s coming out July 2nd, it’s a great flick, I’ve seen it more than I want to, but it’s an amazing flick, and I’m proud of it. 
And what we do, my brother and I, which is a consistent thing, is he has a movie or I have a product. And we share thoughts. And when we’re sharing thoughts, it’s nice, I mean, we feel like brothers, it’s a good thing. But the real point is we have a word and it’s called “notes.” I didn’t learn this word until I started working with him and a lot of execs in Hollywood. 
“Notes” is a common term. Notes is a word when you have a script and you pass it back and forth, you give each other your notes. When you watch a movie, you write down your notes and you pass your notes back and forth. And it’s not like notes when you were in sixth grade and it was like a love letter note. Like, yeah, will you go out to dinner with me? Yes? No? Maybe? Not that kind of note. It’s a note that’s like criticism. And when you write it down, it’s to make something better. 
This here is an app called Final Draft. What you’re seeing is the full power of the PC as I hold it in one hand. Note how I don’t get tired. Note how there’s no fatigue. I’m holding it like I would in a normal piece of paper. That’s the brilliance of the thing and the light in this product in the 3:2 aspect ratio at 12 inches. 
In this app running in the full core right now of the PC that it is, I’m now pushing the entire “Earth to Echo” script — which is the movie that comes out on July 2nd. That script now is in my hands, and I can edit it real time. Watch how I put the ink to pixel on this screen, and you can see the detail of what we did, which I’ll talk about in a minute, which makes this feel like a real pen. 
I can put my hand down, like anything you’d expect when you’re writing. It’s called palm block where nothing moves. And when I get the pen down, you can see the finite detail that I can write and how the ink comes out of the tip. 
One of the classic problems in writing is parallax. I told you, we built the thinnest optical stack ever created. Why? Not so I can show off a drop on stage, but to remove parallax from the product. Another way to say parallax, which is just silly to a customer, to a user. The pen tip is right where the ink is. When you write with parallax, you see that latency, you see that gap, and it makes it hard to think when you write. And it turns out, when you write, you are thinking. 
But here, I’m going to give my brother a few notes. And what’s unique about this application is you can only do it on the Windows platform. This app specifically is designed for Surface Pro 3 and optimized for Surface Pro 3. When we sat with the Hollywood execs and we sat down with Final Draft, we said, “We’ve got something beautiful.” And instead of when you just pull a final draft on a tablet where you can only read it and then make the phone call to do the edits, you now can write your thoughts in and you can say, “Hey, Andrew, too much talking. Too much kids.” I love kids, but too much, man, it’s an action scene. Go with the action. 
But as I write, my brother can open up his Surface, his PC, his iPad, and those notes synch to the cloud with OneDrive. They push right to him, and he’s now real time being productive, which is very, very cool because now my notes are coming in live and it’s my personal handwriting that’s doing it. Pretty cool, right?  
Let’s take a look at the screen. I want to show you the screen now because this is just a great opportunity to do it. 
I’m also going to play the speaker through my headset if I can do it. Because I want you to hear the front-facing speakers on this device that are 40 percent more powerful than anything we’ve shipped and are best-in-class in the industry and you’re going to see that. And front-facing for a reason. It’s why I’m going to use the mike, because we don’t want them pointing back, to the sides, or behind the device. We want that natural sound to come at you. So you get the full beauty of it. 
Now, check out the power of Windows here. I’m showing you side-by-side computing. There’s rumors of other side-by-side computing, this is the side-by-side computing, this is Windows.  There’s no tricks, there’s no gimmicks, there’s nothing. It just works, and it’s super powerful. 
I’m going to play the movie, and what you’re going to see, which is kind of cool, is right next to the specs that I’ve been writing on in this script, I’m now looking at the edited scene. Very cool. 
Now I’m going to show you one more thing. As I pull this apart, I just want to show you the beauty of this screen in its fullest. Take a quick look. Carl, can you get that? So I’m going to get the sound up here so you see the front speaker.  Very cool.  
Even more powerful, I can come right back. I just watched the movie. Being created right now in real time, that’s a scene never seen before, and then I can look at the script that’s been written, and the power of Windows is letting me make a movie at the same time as I watch it, which is a very important concept, very cool, right?  
I’m going to switch gears really quick. And you know what? Instead of picking up a device, this time I’m just going to pick up something a little bit more familiar. This is nothing more than a piece of paper and a pen. I know it’s not all that exciting at a tech press event like this, but let’s just talk about it for a minute. 
I want to just think about the power of Microsoft coming together as one Microsoft. I want to think about, with you for just a minute, all the things that come together in such an amazing company to bring a device like this together. 
And if the design point is something as simple as we believe what can be digital will be digital, you have to start removing barriers of technology very quickly. A piece of paper and a pen is as analog as it gets. It is as natural as it gets. The design points through the device shine through. When you lay it down, it feels like a piece of paper. You can write on it at any given time. You can move it and use it to replace your 13-inch laptops very quickly. Yet, then you can obviously use it as a tablet any time. But, ultimately, removing that barrier of technology is critical to make it feel great. 
Critical. But how? It takes all of Microsoft to come together to build a device. And Satya and I spent plenty of time thinking about this specific thing. And we get together and we’ve had plenty of conversations. What do you do? The power of Windows. The power of Office. The power of OneNote. The immense opportunity in the cloud with OneDrive. So important to bring those properties together, but not just with words, with experiences. 
And I’m just going to show you one here today. But the first thing I’m going to do is explain how the experience is created. It was just a piece of paper and a pen. That was it. What do you do when you have these two things? You write. But there’s never a barrier to write, is there? You just click the pen and you put it to paper. And you write your thoughts. It turns out, people feel like that’s personal. 
I use it myself to journal. I know my mom keeps a laundry list of all the things she has to do on a piece of paper. I know there’s plenty of people out there that they just write it down and they wish they could take it with them everywhere. 
I want to show you one thing today and I’m going to turn off my device to show it to you. Now, I want you to just watch. And the seamless event that you are a student in class and you needed to capture that thought. Or you’re crazy like me and you wake up at 3:00 in the morning because you have some really bad idea that you need to write down. 
You need to pick up your device, your piece of paper, and you need to click your pen because you know you can write. And when you click it, even if your device is off, you have to know you can write immediately.  
Now, it goes just one step further. You now have this amazing writing experience, it’s unparalleled. We’ve removed parallax. We have the lowest latency in the industry. We have a beautiful-feeling pen tip. You can write in detail. You can use Photoshop and make art. You can have 256 points of pressure. But more important than all of that is you can write your notes and the minute you click your pen, they go right into the cloud. And when they go into the cloud, they go to every single device that’s in this room right now. Every single device in your pocket, every single device in your laps, every single device in your hands. All of them. And the power of OneNote brings that beauty to you everywhere. 
Every thought you had that you didn’t lose because instantaneously you captured it went with you. That’s powerful. That’s super powerful. That’s everything. That’s the Microsoft cloud coming to life. That’s Office, that’s Windows, that’s the power of hardware and Surface all coming together to make that happen. Very cool, right? 
But it doesn’t stop. Let me show you one more thing, and this is just for fun because I get to do it. I’m going to unlock my device. And you’ll see, right when I unlock it, it takes me to the full OneNote. OK? Now that I’m in full OneNote, you’ll see that my notes can go with me anywhere, like I talked about, which is cool. 
I’m going to go one extra step, and I’m going to show you just a cool little thing just to show you how powerful this device can be. 
I open the camera. There are two beautiful cameras on this product, as you would expect. And they are gorgeous, and you will see that later, and you’ll get them in your speeds and feeds for sure. 
But I’m going to hold up my device. Can you guys see that? And I’m just capturing the image behind me. So you know, I’m just capturing the image, it’s nothing more than that. But instead of taking a photo, I’m going to double-click my pen and watch what happens. It shows me that I’m activating OneNote, which is important, and it brings in what’s known as an acid layer on top, and we just call it that from a design perspective. It’s not really acid, don’t worry.  
And then I’m going to take my pen and I’m going to capture the thought that I wanted to capture. If you wanted to capture anything because you wanted to edit that note and share it with somebody, how would you do it? How about this as a natural way? And just let go of the pen. And while that’s just an image, it floats itself just like that into OneNote. Very cool.  
Now I’m going to take it and I’m going to show you what I can do with it. I’m going to make a little bit of a mess because I’m upside down. But if you can get a close-up of that — Carl, if you can come into that a little bit. You’ll see as I color the S on the product, I color the U, I’m in a place where while I can’t write upside down very well and it’s kind of silly, I am in a place where I’m able to do a bit of tracing to not only capture thoughts, but check out how cool this is. Imagine if you just double-click somebody and you wanted to do a self-portrait. And then I do the editing. Now, I can choose, do I want the ink to paper? Do I want the ink to my device? Do I want the ink just to be there when I move anything that’s underneath it? I do. Very cool.  
Now, I remember this scenario for me, and this is an interesting one. On an airplane, my boss on an airplane, and Stephen is here today. Can pull out a magazine from that airplane and you flip through the magazine. Have you ever done that? Of course you have. And when you’re flipping through, you find this page that’s really interesting to you. 
Now, some of us are rude and we rip the paper out because you want to keep it, and then you put ink to it. It’s almost natural, like, here’s my thought. And then it gets left on my desk. 
Think about this, read this, what are you going to do with this? This is capturing every thought. Now, I’m opening up a Web page here. This is an interesting one. Now, this is an article that Joanna had written maybe on May 5th. Yeah. That’s yours. It’s well written, by the way. Yeah, the video is good too, I mean, it’s all good.  You did an amazing job. I mean, I’m super impressed. 
But I’m going to read a paragraph here that is really impactful to me and the Surface team. I’d love for you to listen to it because sometimes when you write, it’s different than when you listen, it’s really interesting. Yeah. 
What I really want to come out of the envelope one day — which is spectacular — is a piece of hardware that pushes both Airs together without compromise. That’s interesting. Yep. That means a super-slim machine with a touch screen. Huh. Well done. And some sort of keyboard. 4G connectivity, multi-day battery life, but I want other features, too, that can liberate us from ways we have interacted with computers in the PC era. 
Now, I’m going to double-click this so you can get the concept. It’s going to bring me back to that same layer. You see that? Carl, you got it? And then I’m just going to take it, the clip I want, and I’m going to send it to OneNote. And now I have what I need to do. 
And so what I’m going to do is just send Joanna a small note and say, “Joanna, check out Surface Pro 3. I’m pretty sure, it meets your needs.”  
Now, here’s what’s cool about that. I write the ink, I edit the document, even better, since Joanna and I are using the same account, she now has it forever on her device as well. So in just a minute when it synchs to the cloud, she now gets the power of my note on the PC that I’ve given her from before. 
Folks, we are super, super proud of Surface Pro 3. I am sure Satya, I am sure, that this is the tablet that can replace the laptop. I am sure. And I hope that when you get your hands on it, you love it. And for those of you at home, it goes on sale tomorrow. You can pre order it starting at $799. Very important to understand. It comes in three configs: Core i3, Core i5, and Core i7. 
For those of you here, I could talk all day, and it feels like I have.  I think I might be done talking. But for you to get the real feel of this device, you have to touch it. For you to feel how personal it is, you have to hold it. For you to feel how productive it can be, you have to type on it, you have to write on it. That experience is critical. 
So what we’re doing, we’re going to give each of you a device today on your way out. There will be a process to do that, for sure, but we are so proud of this device, we want it in your hands right now. 
On behalf of Microsoft, on behalf of the Surface team, on behalf of Satya and Stephen, I’d like to say thank you. I hope you guys have a wonderful day. 
 All right. Panos mentioned there’s a process. Here’s the process: Some of our lovely invited guests, you have a guest badge. My colleague Matt Chapman is going to help you at the coat check area with your device. 
If you are a member of the press or analyst corps and you have one of these badges, these badges right here, they’re very specific. We’re going to punch them with a punch card when we hand you a device. It has a keyboard and a pen with it. On your way out, we’re going to punch these cards a second time. We’re going to punch the cards, Paul, not you. We thought about it.  
And we’re going to ask you to sign a loaner agreement that says you’ve accepted this from us on loan. It has the power cord, the box, and if you’d like a bag, you’re free to take one of those. 
We would like you to join us in the lounge area for as long as you would like to stay and enjoy your device, talk to members of the Surface team. 
When I say that there are enough for everyone, we did a count. We know exactly how many of these we gave out, so there’s no need to jump up and rush when I say let’s bring the carts out and please take your time as you walk over and grab a device. Thank you.  
 Good afternoon, everyone, and thanks for joining us for a briefing on the Microsoft, Salesforce partnership announced a short while ago.
On the call today is Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella and Salesforce.com Chairman and CEO Marc Benioff. Satya and Mark will open the call with a few brief remarks and then we’ll open the call for your questions. 
During today’s call we may also reference certain unreleased services or features not yet available. We cannot guarantee the future timing or availability of these services or features, and recommend that customers listening today make their purchase decisions based on services and features currently available.
In addition, it’s possible that some of our comments today may contain forward-looking statements which are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and should any of these risks or uncertainties materialize or should our assumptions prove to be incorrect, actual results could differ materially from these forward-looking statements.
And a description of risks, uncertainties and assumptions and other risk factors that could affect our respective companies’ financial results are included in each of our SEC filings, included in our most recent reports on Forms 10-Q for Microsoft and 10-K for Salesforce.com under the heading Risks Factors.
So with that, let me turn the call over to you, Marc.
 Well, thanks very much, John.
First, I just want to say how absolutely thrilled I am to be partnering today with Satya. It’s been absolutely great working on this agreement together. I just couldn’t be happier with how things have gone. So thank you very, very much, Satya, for all your efforts and everything that you’re doing to make this so successful.
We both view our mission as helping customers succeed in today’s new world, a world of the cloud, a world of social computing, of mobile computing, of connectivity. And this announcement is really about putting our customers first. It’s about extending the power of the Salesforce, the world’s No. 1 CRM platform, with Microsoft, the world’s most widely used productivity solutions.
And really to go into the details, I’d like to pass it off to you, Satya, and maybe you can just explain to everyone the details of our new relationship and how all this has come to pass.
 Great. Thank you very much, Marc. First, I want to say it’s a pleasure working with you and your team. I couldn’t have been more pleased that we’re partnering across many areas of our businesses.
I want to spend some time upfront discussing what this partnership means for Microsoft, why we partnered at this time, and what it means for our customers.
Those of you on the phone are probably asking why we did this deal. The simple truth is that we wanted to bring more value to our mutual customers, and be each other’s customers in relevant areas.
More specifically, we are excited to be working together on the following: First, we will empower people to use Office 365 and Salesforce seamlessly together, whether it’s sharing Office documents in Salesforce1 or analyzing CRM data in Power BI for Office 365.
Second, we are bringing the leading CRM application to Windows devices, both phones and PCs.
Third, Microsoft has renewed our commitment to using ExactTarget Marketing Cloud for one-to-one digital marketing efforts. And Marc will talk more about Salesforce’s commitment to use Microsoft database and cloud technologies with ExactTarget.
This partnership is about helping customers extract more value from our technologies. It gives them access to the services they need to be productive, to collaborate, market and sell, wherever they work.
At Microsoft we are focused on building the best productivity experiences and cloud platforms, and enable our customers to thrive in a mobile-first and cloud-first world. 
I couldn’t be more thrilled to make this announcement today with you, Marc, and bring the value to our mutual customers. 
And, with that, let me hand it back to you.
 Well, thank you, Satya. And as I mentioned, I couldn’t be happier with this announcement. And your team has really been doing a phenomenal job at Microsoft, and I’d like to be so thrilled and appreciative of all the hard work of both teams in fostering this partnership and today’s announcement.
Customers need and they want us to work together. They want this partnership. They want this partnership badly. They want to be able to work with Office 365, they want to be able to work with Excel, with Outlook, they want to work with all of Microsoft’s apps, and they want to be able to work with Salesforce. And they want us to work together for our customers’ benefit.
Our new native Salesforce1 app for Windows Phones is going to give our users the power to run their businesses from their Windows Phones, and we see that in the market today. Our customers want to run their business from their phone. I run my business from my phone, and I’m going to be running my business from my new Windows Phone, and I want to thank you for that, Satya.
And we’re also excited to announce that SQL Server is going to continue to be the database for ExactTarget, and that we are increasing our investment and resources on SQL Server, and that Salesforce will also use Microsoft Azure for ExactTarget development and testing, and also researching other areas where we can use Azure through our company.
You know, this is an incredible partnership. It starts with Satya and I coming together, our companies coming together, but mostly it’s for getting our customers together. This is also about us extending our use of Microsoft’s technologies like SQL Server and Office 365, and it’s also absolutely thrilling for me to hear that Microsoft is going to extend their use of the ExactTarget Marketing Cloud. And what I’ve seen them do with Office 365 has been amazing.
The strategic partnership with Microsoft fundamentally advances our goal of making our customers more productive and successful, and it’s really the best of both worlds.
So I’d just like to open this up now for questions.
 Thanks. Good afternoon. 
Past partnerships like this have faded over time. From your perspective, why does this marriage last?
 I’ll take that first, Marc, and then you can add to it.
I think Marc said it well when he said that this partnership is about starting with customers first and their expectations. And having two leading SaaS applications, one in productivity and collaboration, and the other in CRM, coming together with the integration, is what I believe our customers expect of us. They expect us to work great in a heterogeneous environment. 
And so that’s what’s going to make this last. It’s about keeping customers first and then really reinforcing each other’s platform capabilities to serve our mutual customers is what I believe is the long term stable part of this partnership.
 Hi. That’s Gartner, just to be clear. Hi, guys.
Very interesting announcement, and Satya, I have a question about how this will work for Office 365 users. There have been prior attempts to link some of these tools to other environments in the app space before, and I think a lot of us probably believe that those things were hamstrung because of the additional cost to connect to those other sources. Do you envision making this available to anybody using Office 365 who’s also a Salesforce customer or will there be an additional charge levied on them?
 First of all, one of the things that’s fundamentally changing is the cost of integration between different systems, I think, in this cloud-first and mobile-first world is coming down radically, and it’s coming down because of some of the technology advances that we’ve had across the industry. And the fact that Office 365 today has great REST-based APIs for anything from SharePoint lists to single sign-on authentication to Exchange contact information makes it so much more possible for anyone to have great integration with Office 365.
So in terms of cost itself it’s about anyone who’s today a subscriber to Office 365 for a business can absolutely take advantage of the integration that we do between Salesforce and Office 365. So I think that this is going to really remove a lot of the friction that exists and make it much more seamless for them to be able to integrate because of the modern nature of the integrations themselves.
 Marc, you’ve had sharp criticisms of Microsoft in the past. You’ve questioned its relevance, as well as its vigor to compete. What’s changed, in your opinion? 
And if I may also pose a question to Satya, in terms of your strategy going forward, is this the start of more collaborative arrangements with companies that have technologies or functionality where you think Microsoft customers now are not being adequately served?
Thank you.
 Well, thanks for that question. I think what you really start with, you know, I really believe that relationships are eternal, and it’s the technology itself that’s temporal. I started working with Microsoft first in the mid-1980s and our relationship, of course, has changed and evolved as the technology has changed and evolved over the decades.
Today, we’re announcing a very important interchange between our technologies, and first and foremost when we acquired ExactTarget, we acquired a stronger relationship with Microsoft. That changed.
And when Satya became the CEO of Microsoft, that gave us the opportunity to have an even stronger relationship with Microsoft, and that changed.
And today, we’re making another change, and the change that we’re making, just first and foremost, we are committing to integrating Salesforce more deeply with Microsoft’s core strategy, which is Office 365.
And that’s especially exciting for us because ExactTarget is also embedded within Office 365. Its Journey Builder capabilities provide users the opportunity to move through Office 365 workflow. And we’ve been so excited to work with Microsoft in embedding ExactTarget into Office 365. So to see them using more ExactTarget within Microsoft is exciting. 
And that encourages us to use more SQL Server. SQL Server is something that I’ve watched grow from just an idea at Microsoft to a $6 billion business, and I’m sure will be a $10 billion business and one of the very largest and most important database products in our entire industry. And Salesforce is more committed to using SQL Server today than ever.
And Azure that Microsoft is investing in its own cloud infrastructure as a service is something that we’re starting to use more of at Salesforce. And we think that Microsoft is doing a lot of the right things to encourage its customers to move to the cloud, to move to the mobile world with some of the advancements in Windows 8 to move to new social computing and connect in a whole new way.
And those are the things that have changed, and I couldn’t be happier. I’ve always wanted to have a closer relationship with Microsoft, and now we do. And it’s because all these things have come together.
So Satya, do you want to comment on that?
 Great. Thanks, Marc.
I think that Marc really covered the spirit and the depth and breadth, I think, of both what we intend to do and are doing, and the key circumstances that are leading to it.
The only thing I would add specifically to your question is, we want to be a broad platform provider in this mobile-first, cloud-first world, so partnerships like the one that we are talking about with Salesforce today is very, very important to us. And we want to have this be mutually reinforcing for our businesses, but most importantly for our mutual customers. And so with that spirit in mind, I want to approach partnerships that really add value to the entire industry. And that’s I think the spirit you can expect more from us.
 Yes. There’s been a number of reports on this deal, but I just want to make sure we get some clarity on exactly what appears on Azure as a platform provider. Is this strictly the integration of the Salesforce apps with Office 365, the integration of cloud services, rather than making available Salesforce apps on Azure?
 That’s right. This announcement is not about making Salesforce apps available on Azure, though Salesforce is going to start using Azure as part of its development environment, and how we build software.
This announcement is about taking Microsoft’s core strategy, Office 365 and Windows, and integrating it with Salesforce’s core strategy, our CRM apps, and making a combined offering that offers more value to our users. So the key is that we are integrating as step one the Salesforce apps with Office and Windows at a deeper level than was previously available. And we’re also continuing to use and expand the use of SQL Server in Salesforce’s core services as well as this first step in development on Azure.
 Thanks. Just one quick question for each of you.
For Satya, you haven’t talked much about your own CRM products here, Dynamics. Just wondering if you could give us an update if there’s any relevant impact on your sales and sort of strategy around Dynamics CRM?
And then to Marc, you’ve done a few acquisitions. You’ve sort of acquired yourself a few platforms and underlying pieces of infrastructure you’ve been trying to bring to the Force.com ecosystem. I’m wondering how you weigh off development on Azure versus all the work that you’ve done in integrating there, and you’re adding another platform here. It seems like it’s a bit more complexity at a time when you’re trying to simplify things.
 Thanks, Walter. So today’s announcement is about our partnership with Salesforce and the many areas of collaboration for us between Office 365, Azure and SQL Server. And I think us being a great platform provider to Salesforce with those three components, and also our use of Salesforce technology and ExactTarget for our own use. I think that that partnership is what we wanted to talk about today.
There will be some areas that we will compete in. But at the same time, I think as being anyone who has got a broad partnership and a platform approach, you will expect us to do exactly what our customers demand of us on those respects.
So, Marc, I’ll just turn it over to you.
 I think that’s really well said. You know, Satya and I have both been in this industry a long time and the reason that these relationships work is because Microsoft’s core strategy is Windows and Office, that’s where the revenue comes from. And Salesforce’s core strategy is our CRM apps. That’s where our revenue comes from. And we both want to grow our revenues, so we know that we need to be investing in our core and in our strategies.
Two, we do have different development environments at Salesforce, but those development environments truly are transparent to our users. Today, of course, Heroku is built on AWS, Salesforce’s core services use its core development centers in our own core data centers. And ExactTarget runs in its own data centers and also in other heterogeneous cloud services. This is an opportunity for us to bring in new services from Azure, as appropriate. Our customers themselves don’t necessarily need to know about that. What they need to know is that Salesforce’s platform is integrated and works well together. I think our Heroku Connect announcement last week was a great example of that, where there is now transparent integration between Heroku and Force.com.
You’re going to see similar integration between ExactTarget Fuel and Force.com and Heroku. But, in no cases do the customers have to be aware of what is underneath. Those are decisions that we’re making. They don’t need to know are we using SQL Server, are we using Oracle, are we using something else. They need to know that they’re having a great experience in Office 365. They’re having a great experience in Salesforce. That’s what’s important.
 All right. I think that’s all we have for today.
I want to thank everyone for joining us and if you have any follow-up questions you can reach out to your usual contacts at either Microsoft or at Salesforce, or those listed on the press release issued earlier today.
So thanks, and you may all disconnect.
 Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome corporate vice president of devices partnership, Nick Parker. 
 Welcome and thank you. It’s great to be back with our friends and partners here in Taiwan at Computex. 
I’d like to start by sharing a little bit of an industry perspective. It’s been an incredible year for the industry. You know, we’re on a path together to do nearly 5 billion devices, to build 5 billion devices by the end of 2015. That’s PCs and tablets and phablets and smart phones and the Internet of Things. That’s a phenomenal amount of devices. And this is all starting this year.
And it’s been an incredible year for Microsoft. You know, this year alone, if you just think of two of the big headlines, we have a new CEO, Satya Nadella, and on top of that we’ve changed some historic things in our Windows products and business models. I mean, this is phenomenal.
Let me give you a little perspective about one perspective on the industry megatrends and how that shapes our innovation agenda, but also the partnership opportunity that we have.
Clearly, everything is moving mobile. Next year or this year, over 90 percent of companies will actually spend money on mobility. Whether it’s enabling analog capability to move to fast mobile devices, whether it’s moving things from desktop to notebooks to phones to Internet of Things, devices or embedded devices, we see this incredible movement in mobility.
The next area clearly is social, and again let me use the kind of business metaphor. Over 50 percent of enterprises will actually use social inside their corporation to enable them to increase efficiencies and realize new collaboration capabilities.
The cloud itself leveraging huge capability, huge compute power, helping people realize new economies and efficiencies, and again here we see about 90 percent of all mobile devices will be deployed or provisioned or serviced from the cloud.
And then finally, big data. We’ve continually talked about big data but with the explosion of new devices, with the change of some of these analog behaviors and how we interact as humans becoming more and more digital, it gives us the incredible ability for the machine-to-machine learning that we see and really does take some of that data into new realms of analytics. And we see more and more analytics back-ending everything we do in terms of mobile applications, cloud-driven applications.
And with that industry context, it really does frame up how we think what our innovation agenda should be, and how that should build partnership opportunities together for us and the ecosystem.
We think of this world of mobile-first, cloud-first experiences. These are experiences that should feel as comfortable and as human to us with our human mobility, as well as leveraging the power of the cloud.
And we think about a couple of dimensions here. Firstly, we think about us as individuals and what are our individual needs. We also think about us as organizations and what are those needs in a mobile-first, cloud-first world.
And then we think about what are the roles of each of us that need to come together to deliver these incredible scenarios in a mobile-first, cloud-first world. Whether we’re the end users, whether it’s IT, or finally the developers, and when those three come together, you really see the magic of mobile and cloud coming together through the device, through the cloud, through the services, enabled by the software.
The second thing we then see is context, is that this incredible device proliferation, we have a device for everything, we have a service or an app for everything, gives this incredible sense of ubiquitous computing. There is computing everywhere. Whether it’s smart metering on one hand all the way through to the most personal devices I carry on me instead of with me, through to devices that move through our lives, we see this ubiquitous computing, computing everywhere, and the human-machine interface more and more enabled by lower cost scenarios, the economics of the cloud, as well as the incredible innovation that you do in this room.
And what this generates is huge amounts of data and insight from the devices. 
And that leads us to the investment and the partnership opportunities we need to create as part of this ambient intelligence. With all of these devices and these smart end points connected to the Internet, the machine-to-machine learning, or whether it’s just much smarter analytics and BI and data from these applications that are provisioned mobiley, we’re able to have this ambient intelligence, the ability to understand so much more, respond to those insights, and provide foresight.
And that leads us to what do we need to provide to use the ecosystem, to enable you to take part in these incredible industry megatrends, the growth of device proliferation and add real unique value to end users that live in this mobile-first, cloud-first world with ubiquitous computing, devices everywhere, and the ability to understand and respond with the intelligence.
And that brings us to this slide, the slide that shows all of our devices. And whether they’re connected by Windows powering them on device, whether it’s a consumer service like Xbox Live or our commercial service built on a platform on Azure, you see we’re leaders in the Gartner Magic Quadrant for Platform as a Service and Infrastructure as a Service with Azure. Or whether it’s Office 365 or Skype, Xbox Live, or CRM Online, these are true cloud platforms that enable you to build your devices on them.
And no better way to highlight that than to bring up a good friend, Tony Prophet, who runs the Windows business, to tell us about Windows’ view and how we can partner together. Tony? 
 Thank you, Nick.
Well, I’m thrilled to see so many of my longtime friends and partners from Taiwan and from around the world.
Now, many of you know I’ve spent the last eight years delivering compelling Windows experiences to customers around the world, now with the team along the way delivering over 400 million Windows devices. Now I’ve joined Microsoft, and I joined Microsoft because I firmly believe that we’re uniquely positioned to win in this cloud-first and mobile-first world. 
And we’re starting from a position of strength. Every day, 1.5 billion people around the world know, use and trust Windows, either to learn, play, work and create.
Now, we feel confident about our ecosystem. We’ve got scale and a truly global footprint. We’re not highly fragmented and we have an extraordinary suite of relevant cloud services. We can light up these services on a vast array of devices around the world. And we complement them with a growing and an increasingly compelling portfolio of partner apps. And most important, we’ve got you, our trusted partners who are at the heart of this vibrant, open, and innovative ecosystem.
So how will we continue to win together, all of us, in this Windows ecosystem? 
First, by focusing on fostering ecosystem opportunity, opportunity for you. From component technologies to systems design to services and solutions, vertical services and solutions for our most trusted partners, our ecosystem is open. It’s open to your ideas, it’s open to your innovation, and it’s open to the core value that for us to win, you’ve got to win.
Second, to accelerating our innovation pace. You’ve spoken, we’ve listened. Gone are the days of a three-year release cycle. We’ve taken your feedback and we’re moving to a system of regular updates, not just fixes but regular updates that bring new features that our customers truly value. 
And finally, by delivering common experiences. Microsoft is committed to deliver a common set of user experiences from the metaphors of the UI to those cloud-based services that we light up around the world. So we’re working to cultivate a portfolio of apps and services, cloud-based services around the world. These are services of scale, familiar brands that you know and trust, from the industry standard for productivity, Office, to the Xbox Live service that entertains and delights us every day. These services connect us and this ecosystem to hundreds of millions of users every day.
But there’s even more. We’re cultivating — and not just cultivating, but we’re committed to cultivating and merchandizing the broadest set of apps to learn, play, work and create. 
And we’re making great progress. Our app developer base has grown by 50 percent year over year. The number of apps have grown nearly twofold year over year, with hundreds of thousands of apps. And we’ve got a great balance of apps across premier consumer-based apps like WeChat, WhatsApp, Spotify, Pandora, Sina Weibo. 
And today I’m happy to announce that Kabam, a leader in free-to-play games, will bring its hit franchise to Windows. Now, Kabam is poised to become one of Asia’s most popular mobile games developer publishers. The company’s largest studio is located in Beijing, and this is where they develop some of their greatest hit games, “Fast and Furious 6,” “Dragons of Atlantis,” and “The Hobbit: Kingdoms of the Middle Earth.” These existing franchises, along with new hits, will be a great addition to the Windows ecosystem.
Now, these consumer apps are complemented by an extraordinary portfolio of business and productivity apps, including GoToMeeting, Office and Lync.
And we’re committed to bringing the very best line-of-business apps to this ecosystem as well. Just last week, we announced that Salesforce1 will be coming to Windows and Windows Phone in the fall of 2014.
Now, so in today’s world all of us, each of us interact with a multitude of devices every day, from the smart phone to the phablet to the tablet to the two-in-one to the notebook, all-in-one, desktop, et cetera. But there hasn’t yet been an easy way for a developer to develop an app for all of these devices and all these form factors until now. 
So at Build 2014 we announced universal Windows apps. Now, this is a way where developers can code and develop once to use across all these form factors. Not only is it great for developers, it’s great for customers, too. With universal Windows apps customers, you will be able to buy the app once and use it across all your Windows devices. So our clear intent is to build a premier portfolio of universal Windows apps that you’ll be able to light up from an entry level smart phone to an OPP tablet to your largest screen. And these are just the Windows Store apps. 
Now, we all know that the world has come to rely and trust upon Windows for this incomparable, the ubiquitous suite of programs, household names like Photoshop, Quicken, AutoCAD, and yes, even iTunes. 
Now, clearly the world’s moving fast, and so are we. We’ve honored your feedback and we’re pivoting from an approach of multiyear releases to regular updates that go beyond simple fixes to bringing new features that our customers value.
So where is the proof? It’s in the short interval improvements that you see and the releases that you’ve seen since 2013 to both Windows and Windows Phone, delivering an impressive array of sets of features that respond to the voices of our customers around the world.
Now let’s get specific. In 2014 you’ve already seen some significant updates to Windows and Windows Phone. First, we focused on improving the core element of the Windows 8 mouse and keyboard experience. That bears repeating. The Windows 8.1 update focused on improving the core elements of the Windows 8 mouse and keyboard experience. 
And then we added some magic: shape writing and Cortana. Now, I’ve brought Nick Hedderman — he’s a leader on my team now — to share with us and show us some of this magic in action. So Nick? Welcome, Nick.
 Thanks, Tony. 
Well, good afternoon, everyone. It’s a great honor to be here in Taiwan to share with you some of the updates that we’ve made to both Windows and Windows Phone this year alone.
Like Tony said, we’ve been listening to our partners and to our customers all around the world, and we’ve been using feedback to scope and to hone the experience that we bring to life, both on the PC, tablet and phone. And not just only that, we’ve also been building some really exciting experiences, experiences that create demand and intrigue for Windows-based devices.
I’m going to start with Windows, and I want to talk to you about the latest release called Windows 8.1 Update. In this release we put the mouse and the keyboard user first. That’s especially important for users that may not have a touchscreen device. It allows them to navigate and discover the experience in a way that feels very familiar to them, and it starts with the desktop.
So let’s get started on my PC over here, and you’ll see my beautiful desktop.
Now, one of the things you’ll notice is that the Start button is back there right in the bottom corner. And I’m going to click on that a little bit later on and come back to that in a second.
Some other things you’ll notice is we now can pin the Windows Store applications directly to that taskbar so they look and feel just like more traditional applications. 
So here I can see I’ve got Internet Explorer and File Explorer, more traditional applications, and yet next to it I have the Store and OneDrive and even my music application. 
So as I hover over them, they give me that mini-preview. Now, in the case of my music I even get those small controls so I can play and pause and skip my music directly from that taskbar.
Now let’s open up one of these Windows Store applications. What you’ll notice is because I’m using a mouse to interact with the application, as I scroll up to the very top, I get this hyper-bar pop down so I can minimize or I can close that application. And that’s consistent through every single app that you download from the store.
Now, talking of the Store, the Store is now automatically pinned to the taskbar, which is much better for the end user to discover new applications and, of course, this is great news for our developer community. It’s putting the Store right at the forefront of our user experience.
So those are just some of the changes we made to the desktop. Now let’s go back and click that Start button that I spoke about earlier. 
Here’s my beautiful Start screen, my canvas to express my individuality. And you can see here all the things that matter to me most. And thanks to Live Tiles, all that information is coming directly onto the tile. So I can scroll with my mouse wheel to move left and right. 
And we’ve also made some other changes that really celebrate the mouse and keyboard as an input method. Let’s take this weather tile here in the middle. If I right-click on it, I get that right-click menu that a keyboard and mouse user would expect, so I could resize, I could uninstall, I could pin it to my taskbar, and many different options.
Let me show you another thing. A lot of keyboard users use the control button to select multiple things. So I’m going to hold down control and I’m going to select four Office apps there. In fact, I’m going to drag them over here and create a new section. Let’s move that one back. In fact, I’m going to rename this. Let’s call this Office. There we go, Office. And, in fact, I’m even going to make them bigger. So I’m going to click on them all, right-click, resize, and I’ve made them all medium.
So you can see how the keyboard and the mouse can really interact with this beautiful, modern new Start screen experience.
Another thing you’ll notice is when I’ve installed a new application, I just get a little reminder at the bottom there. And if I click, there’s my all apps list and it’s very clear to me which ones are new and which ones I might want to do something with, whether I want to pin them directly to the taskbar on the desktop or pin them to my Start screen.
So those are just some of the changes we’ve made based on a lot of feedback from you, the partners, and also from our end users all around the world.
I want to switch gears and show you some fun stuff that we’ve been building, and we call this the Maps Preview. This is built by the Bing team, and it’s a really beautiful 3D rendering of very excellent cities all around the world. In fact, I’ve started here with Seattle because that’s where I live. I thought I’d give you a quick glimpse of what it looks like. There’s the Space Needle. We can see the music museum there. That’s even my apartment over there, see with the star on. So that’s where I live.
And let me show you my office. So I’m just going to pan out a little bit here. I’m going to fly over Lake Washington, and there’s the Microsoft campus showing up. And the little red briefcase is my office there. So a cool way to be able to experience cities before you’ve even been there.
Now, that’s all well and good for a city like Seattle that I know, but I want to show you an example where this is really helpful, in fact somewhere I’ve never been before. So this holiday I’m planning to go to Italy, in fact Verona. So I’m going to click Verona and we’re going to zoom out. We’re going to fly across the Atlantic and land here in Northern Italy. 
And here is the city of Verona. It’s absolutely beautiful. And this is a fantastic way to navigate around and get a real sense of what the city looks like before you arrive. In fact, that hill over there looks pretty cool. I’d quite like to stay near there. So I think I’m going to look at some hotels close by.
And thanks to Bing, we can now search through a bunch of data and we can put it directly onto the map. So you’ll see here there’s lots of hotels showing up in the back there, but this number one just over in the corner is nice and close by. 
So let’s take a look at that, and we can see loads of detail, rich Bing data coming through here, Trip Advisor reviews. I can call them, I can go directly to their websites, can even get directions say from the airport.
But in this case I’m just going to save this to my OneNote. So OneNote is Microsoft’s note-taking tool that is truly cross-platform and cross-device. 
So we’re just going to click to share this to OneNote. I’m going to rename this to Verona 2014, and then send. And now that’s saved automatically to the cloud and accessible wherever I’m using OneNote. And I’m going to come back to that a little bit later on.
So those are just some of the changes that we’ve made to Windows. Now I want to shift gears and talk to you about what we’re doing on Windows Phone.
So I’m just going to go to my desktop and load up this fantastic application that allows me to project my device.
So here it is, Windows Phone 8.1, the latest version that is rolling out to existing users at the moment, and it’s coming preinstalled on new devices, some of which you see behind us, and others in shops all around the world.
And with Windows Phone we think that we have got the most personal smart phone experience in the world. We celebrate what matters most to the end user, their favorite people, applications and many other things. And that truly comes to life on the Start screen. You can see here I have pinned all of the things that matter to me most. And again just like on my PC, I’m seeing beautiful, rich data coming through, thanks to Live Tiles.
Now, sometimes you don’t have all of your applications pinned to your Start. And we had lots of feedback from our end users, we’d love a way to be able to see all of the things that have happened on my phone since I last looked. Well, the good news is we added something which we call the Action Center. I pull directly from the top here anywhere in the device, and I can see all of my notifications in one place, and I can choose my custom settings that pop up at the top there. So if I want to drop it into airplane mode or turn my Bluetooth on and off, I can do directly from the Action Center.
Another thing that’s great is I can go directly into all my settings. And I want to show you this other great new feature that we’ve brought to the Start screen. We call this the Start background. And I’m going to choose here a picture that I took just recently when I was out and about. This is Taipei 101, as I’m sure you’ll know. I’m going to save that as my Start theme. And when I go back to my Start screen, those blue tiles have now gone completely translucent, and I’ve got this beautiful image in the background that looks fantastic on this little parallax effect as I scroll up and down. So just another way to truly personalize your phone.
Now, again we listened very closely to our community and they asked us for a way in which that they could manage the files on their devices. And we’ve responded. In fact, it was only just a few days ago we released what we call the Files application to the Windows Phone store. This is the first first-party experience to manage files on your device. You can’t do that on iOS and you have to use a third-party application on Android.
And let me show you what it looks like. So here you can see my phone and I actually have an SD card in this device as well. So I can move content between those two storage locations.
Now, I’m going to create a new folder. Let’s do that here on my phone. And I’ve been taking some pictures of Taipei. So let’s call this folder Taipei. There we go. And now I’m going to go into the location where those pictures are currently saved under my Saved Pictures. As you can see, I’ve got a ton of photos here. I’m going to select them all and check them all. Actually I’m not sure there are lions in Taiwan. They were clearly from a previous trip. Let’s take those ones out. And now I’m going to move those all to that folder I just set up, move here, and you can see it’s just shifted all those photos over instantly. 
So you can imagine how useful this is going to be for managing all of your files directly on your device, and there you can see they’re all now in that new folder. So a great new experience, completely free, just published to the store, and something we’re really excited about, based again on the feedback we’ve had.
So let’s shift gears and talk about some of the exciting things, some of the magic that Tony said earlier that we’ve been building in this latest version of Windows Phone, and it starts with the keyboard.
I’m just going to start a new email here. And you have to bear with me, because I’m not the fastest typer in the world, but let’s give it a go. We’ve added shape writing capability into the keyboard. And the keyboard not only understands the way that you type but it also knows the people in your address book. So I’m going to give you some examples of this as I go through.
So “built-in Windows Phone” — can even do a little icon, pretty cool, “keyboard is an extraordinary” — pretty cool — “experience.” Oh, let’s try that one again. “Experience. It knows my people.” Now I’m going to type a colleague’s name here, and it’s Augusto. And notice it picks his surname up as I started. It’s one my buddies back in Redmond. “And it knows really hard words.” Let’s go for “Mississippi.” Boom, there we go. So a great experience. You notice I was gliding my finger over the words, very easy to interact with, and it comes built into every single Windows Phone for free.
Now, the last thing I want to show you is our new truly personal digital assistant called Cortana. Cortana is currently a beta in the U.S., and I’m very excited to announce that in the coming months we’re going to be adding both the U.K. market and the Chinese market to the Cortana service.
Now, what’s great about these new countries is we’re not just taking the U.S. version and rolling it out to those two new locations. We spent many, many hours building a great voice capability for those local markets, and exclusive features for those markets, too. So watch this space as those things start to come to life in the coming months.
But for today I’m going to show you the U.S. version of Cortana here on my phone.
Now, I can get to Cortana through a number of ways. She has a Live Tile, as you would expect, or I can just hit the search button. And what you’ll notice is this is what we call Cortana home. As I swipe up, I have a curated set of content that’s very individual to me. In fact, you notice here that she’s picked up that I’ve booked some flights, and she’s asking me, hey, do you want me to track those flights for you? That’s a fantastic idea because, you know what, 24 hours before she’s going to tell me to check in and she’s even going to remind me if the flight is going to be late or cancelled. So I’m going to accept that and that one there, and now we are tracking.
You’ll also notice that she can work out your location. Earlier when I showed you that three-dimensional map, you noticed a little red briefcase and a little red star on my home. That was because she works out where I live.
Now, it’s quite funny, I’ve obviously been here in Taipei for the last five days, and she thinks I now live in Taipei. I don’t live here, so I’m just going to say no, so she’s got that one now.
And she’s also showing me some latest results, news results, things that I’m tracking, business news, the World Cup, and of course the latest at Computex, and at the bottom here some weather stuff.
Now, when we built Cortana, we actually worked with real-world assistants. We spent time learning how they handle their clients. And one thing that was true and consistent was this idea of a notebook. And so we’ve implemented that very same concept here into Cortana. Here’s Cortana’s notebook about me. She knows all of my interests, for example. You can see those flights I’m tracking there. She knows all the people that matter most to me, my inner circle. 
There you can see my wife is part of that inner circle. And so she can always get through to me anytime of the day, because we also have this concept called quiet hours. I can turn quiet hours on and when I’ve got incoming phone calls, text messages during meetings or when I’m sleeping, Cortana will take care of them. And as I mentioned, because my wife is in the inner circle, she can get through anytime.
And there you can see all the places that she knows about me, my work location and my home address.
So that’s just a little bit about how she builds up a profile of you as an individual. Let me show you how I might use her on a daily basis, and let’s start with a real basic one. I’ve got to get up early tomorrow to fly back to the U.S., so I’m going to start with an alarm. 
Wake me up at 5:00 a.m.
 Sure thing. Your 5:00 a.m. alarm is now on.
 So I didn’t say set my alarm, I said wake me up. She was smart enough to work that out. 
Let’s try another one. How many calories in a banana?
 There are 105 calories in a serving of banana.
 There you go. And because Cortana works with third-party applications, you’ll notice I can add that to my diet tracker. That’s a Bing Health and Fitness application. And if I wanted to, I could just click that and it’s added it into my diet tracker.
Let’s try one more. What’s the tallest mountain in Taiwan?
 Yushan.
 Is that right?  
This is an easy one. Let’s try this. What is the tallest building in Taiwan?
 Taipei 101. 
 So pretty cool, and you can see how easy she is picking up my voice. It’s very natural. She’s working it out and translating it into a search result very quickly.
Let’s try some more advanced things. Set up an appointment for 7:00 p.m. on Thursday.
 What should I call it?
 Dinner with Liz.
 Okay, add dinner with Liz to your calendar for tomorrow at 7:00 p.m. Is that right?
 Yes.
 OK, I’ve added it. 
By the way, you have dinner with the boss at the same time.  
 Ooh, my wife’s not going to be very happy. I have to choose between the two. But you can see how Cortana can help you get on with productivity type-based questions and challenges.
Now, we have this silly thing, my wife and I, whenever we travel somewhere new we buy a fridge magnet at the location we’re going to. So let’s set myself a reminder. And this is a location-based reminder. Remind me to buy a fridge magnet when I get to Taiwan International Airport.
 Sure thing, remind you to buy a fridge magnet when you get to — sound good?
 Yes.
 Great.
 So now that’s set the reminder and as I go to that location, that reminder’s going to trigger and it will make sure I don’t forget before I get on the plane.
And let’s do one last thing. I love you. 
 Thanks. Ditto.
 So you can see we’ve had a lot of fun building Cortana. She’s not only just functional but her personality really shines through. And as I mentioned earlier, we can’t wait to bring that both to China and the U.K. later this year.
So I hope you’ve enjoyed seeing some of the changes we’ve made to Windows and Windows Phone. Some of those things are based on end user and partner feedback to make the experience richer and better, and some of those things are just really there to delight, to create intrigue and demand for Windows devices.
So let’s get Tony back out onstage and see what he thinks about all of this stuff. What do you think, Tony?
 Yeah, that was really amazing, Nick. It was great. Do you have anything else up your sleeve?
 Well, there was one thing. Can I show it?
 Yeah, go for it.
 Yeah?
 Go for it.
 Well, we’ve got this really cool new application we’re building at the moment, and it’s going to be published to the Store pretty soon. And this is a really interesting way that you can customize your lock screen.
So I’m going to choose a picture here. Let’s go for I’ve got this really funky one here. Where is it? Let’s go with the car. And now I’m going to choose this animation. And so I’m going to turn my phone off, back on again, and now you’ll notice that this picture is animated in a really cool way. And as I go to unlock it, it just comes together like that. It’s just a fun way to make your phone feel way more personal.
 That’s crazy. That’s great, Nick.
 In fact, Tony, I’ve got a question for you. Have you got any more cool stuff to tell this audience?
 Yes, we do. 
 Excellent.
 Yeah, but before I answer that, I just want to thank you for the demo.
 Thank you.
 That was extremely well done. 
 All right.
 That’s amazing.
 Thanks, everyone.
 Very impressive.  It’s impressive and those are great proof points of the principle of regular updates bringing real features. So 8.1 and 8.1 Update weren’t just fixes, those are real delightful, surprising features that are bringing real value to our customers in an update.
So now to the future, pointing to the future, and the future of Windows, the future of computing is about much more than phones, tablets and PCs. 
Now, every day we’re surrounded by an explosion of connected devices, the Internet of Things. Now, we believe that Windows is the right platform to power many of these devices. And while many are talking about the Internet of Things, Windows has been a pioneer for decades, Windows and Windows Embedded inside these platforms around the world, a surprising array of platforms, including things like digital signs, scanners, point of sale devices, medical devices like CT machines and MRI machines, ATMs, vending machines, many, many more, so tens of millions of devices in use, connected devices around the world in use every day.
And for these things of the Internet the Windows platform has proven to be scalable with embedded solutions from 300k all the way up to locked down versions of full Windows, scalable, secure and reliable.
So on top of Windows our intent is to use that foundational layer and layer on top of it a suite of cloud-based services powered by Azure that will allow you to connect to your data and manage your devices, allow you to conduct commerce, allow you to control your environment, and allow you to better serve your customers.
In addition, these cloud-based services will allow you to connect your Windows devices to your other Internet of Things end points and devices, building new and un-thought-of synergies, as well as great new value for your applications.
So let me leave you with some of the core principles that will guide Windows in the future. First, we believe in a natural user interface where touch, voice, gesture become core to how you navigate, interact and input data. 
We believe in embracing the ongoing wave of hardware innovation, the innovation you’re bringing. We’re going to create new experiences that are going to surprise, like Cortana, and they’re going to delight you.
We believe that winning together requires this broader ecosystem with our partners, right, to constantly test our value equation. We’ve got to reduce costs without compromising quality or without compromising the user experience.
We believe that Windows and the cloud-based services powered by Azure can be core to defining and enabling the Internet of Things.
And finally and most importantly, we believe in the power of this scaled, open — I underline open — vibrant and innovative ecosystem to deliver the next billion Windows devices around the world.
So in short, we believe in you.
So I want to thank you for your time today, but more importantly I want to thank you for your commitment and your investment in the Windows ecosystem.
You know, I couldn’t be more excited about the future of our partnership together. I look forward personally to working with all of you broadly in the ecosystem, and to building the next billion Windows devices together.
So let me welcome Nick Parker back to the stage. 
 Well, this is the exciting bit. This is where we get to talk through everything that you’ve built, some of the new innovation and make some news, because we’ve got some new devices to show right now that have never been seen before in public, and we’re going to kind of go through the whole set of form factors and categories of the Windows partner ecosystem innovation.
So I’m going to start off here with this panel really talking about existing categories with new innovation. You know, the all-in-one category we continue to see growth and we all enjoyed some of that growth in all-in-ones. 
I’m going to show you this product here. This is the ASUS 2001, a nice all-in-one product. You can see this really lovely design from our friends down the road, thin, light, and this very, very innovative hinge. 
Now, we’re seeing these PCs which are full detachable, high-power PCs get carried more and more around the home, as well as around the workplace, all for under $700. You have two HDMI outs, all of the ports you’d expect and the capability of Windows, and, of course, just as at home with a mouse and keyboard as it is in this full touch mode, and with remote battery capabilities — really nice piece of design there.
Now, the notebook we start to see again some incredible innovations, and this is a form factor that delights so many people around the world, but you really can continue to innovate and drive. And Dell has done this here with its Latitude 3340. As you can see, it’s this ruggedized form factor, great for education. And Dell worked with teachers to build this device. So you have this ruggedized platform, this water-resistant keyboard, and a great feature that I love, which you can see this little tell-tale light on the back. And this will actually enable a teacher to see if the student is on the Internet or not. So it’s a great piece of technology and very, very welcome in the education environment, and again very, very good prices that really enable more people to be able to think and learn.
Now, a category where we’ve seen a lot of energy is this opening price point notebook category. And again our friends down the road from Acer have done a lovely PC. This is the V11, this really nice multiple colors. It’s thin, it’s super light, and very, very accessible price point, very aggressive price points, highly competitive in this category. This is the touch version. And, in fact, the non-touch version that’s about $249, the touch version being less than $300, these are very accessible products. And for someone that wants to live their life with online experiences and cloud and social network and have this great affordable device for very, very affordable price points. These are really nice devices. That’s the V11 and the E11 is the non-touch version, but super, nice metallic finish, very, very fast-moving category at the moment in the opening price point notebook.
And here is the HP, and this is the HP Pavilion 10. And this is running an AMD processor, and this is again a very nice product. This is the opening price point notebook category again in this 11.6 form factor, nice, nice design, very affordable, and, of course, all of the power of Windows in this very compact design.
Ultrabooks continue to get better and better, and no better than the Samsung Series 9 in terms of its design. I mean, just look at how thin and light and beautiful some of these Windows designs can be. Obviously they fold flat, and this has a screen resolution greater than Retina. So we really do see some of the professional capabilities of these products. Of course touch but again just as friendly with mouse and keyboard, but thin and beautiful. And this is what you get from the Windows ecosystem.
Another product that I continue to love, and in fact this is one of the products that I use a lot of the time, is the Acer Aspire S7. This beautiful glass-backed device, using full glass on the back there, folds flat, very thin. I mean that is just absolutely incredible, running Core i7. And this will actually have the Broadwell processor at holiday. So again, the innovation continuing to move, beautiful design, metallic finish, and you will always get a “Wow” in any coffee shop or any business meeting around the world with this lovely white bezel, this metallic finish as well as this glass-backed PC. Very, very nice device.
So the next set of devices I would like to talk about is the two-in-one category. And, again, just like the all-in-ones, we see tremendous growth here and the ability for us to really monetize some of that R&D and delight customers.
And I’m going to start here with this Dell Inspiron 11. And just look at the design features here. Look at these radius edges, the metallic finish, great HD screen, and I don’t know if you can see the radius edge again on the top there. Lovely design language from Dell, silver metallic finish. And, of course, with this very nice hinge design, you can go full 360 and use this product as, again, a new product, you can use this product in full tablet mode.
You don’t have to compromise between a tablet and a PC. You can bring all of that PC capability to a touch form factor and use it in tablet mode whether you just want to browse the Web or consume or just look at something easy to paginate through or just demo something. But at the same time, you’ve got the full capability of the full keyboard and mouse, and so on. And as well as many different modes you can actually use these in like that.
Another great piece of design, and this is where you see the hinge design being unrelenting. This is the Acer Switch. Really nice design, you can see here again the metallic finishes, that lovely kind of brushed metallic finish from the design team at Acer. And very easy just to disconnect the product like that, super to use, very easy. And now you’re in full tablet touch mode, and again a very nice product. See these stereo speakers at the bottom there. These are all reaching affordable price points very easily.
Another product here, and this is the first piece of new news that none of you will have seen up to this point. And, in fact, this is the HP Pro X2 two-in-one. This is a brand new product, never seen before, so it’s my privilege to announce this with the HP team right now this second. And this is the Pro X2. This is a business two-in-one designed from the ground up for business by HP. And this obviously comes with the kind of things that a business would want. You start off with, what does business really want? And you think about security and some of the TPM or manageability and security V Pro from Intel. It comes in i5 and i7. It comes in 3/4G versions. You have HD cameras on the front and the back to enable you to do great meetings as well as great videoconferences. It has a full stylus.
In fact, the stylus on this device uses the full Wacom digitizer with 1024 points of sensitivity on the stylus to really bring some of those analog writing experiences right into digital technology, whether you were using OneNote as your electronic note taking application or just bringing the stylus and Office into a full immersive experience is a very, very nice design. And, of course, you have a battery in the top as well as the bottom, something that business users want, which will give you eight hours or all the way up 14 hours, and it detaches, and it also has a garage here for the stylus. So a really nice device, and that’s for the first time here today. That is the HP Pro X2, and it’s a pleasure to make that announcement.
Another piece of innovation that has been announced in the last couple of days is this absolutely beautiful ASUS T300. This is absolutely gorgeous. Can you imagine the innovation in this design that they have really, really gotten. When you hear the search for incredible, this is what it’s all about. I’m trying to turn it sideways to see if you can see that. This is paper thin. Let’s just separate these two, and let’s see if we can get the right camera angle there so you can see how thin they are. This is the thinnest, lightest tablet in the world. 
It’s just stunning. You have to be able to see this to believe it. And you have this really nice kind of 13-inch screen. It’s absolutely beautiful and you imagine Windows on this broad screen, whether it’s you want to run a full Excel spreadsheet that I spend a lot of my life in, or whether you’re just looking at some high-resolution images, this is absolutely beautiful and really showing this kind of innovation first and best on Windows with our partners and great, as well, to see from the strength in Taiwan.
The next device I want to show here is the Lenovo ThinkPad S1 Yoga, again, a really nice business tablet, a lot of magnesium to get the rigidity. You get the lightness and you get the performance qualities of some of these advanced materials, again, a business designed tablet. And with the full Yoga I don’t know if you can notice there, but actually you can see the keys become recessed as you go into the 360 mode, and now they’re flat. So when you’re sitting like this it’s very easy and then as you unfold it the keys come back; again, really nice product, lovely products from Lenovo, ThinkPad Yoga S1.
I have a product here from Kampung, one of our Russian partners. And what this really shows you is you can actually see great diversity and with the Microsoft model of being able to engage you in sales and marketing in country, but also being able to work with you across the innovation centers in Taiwan or Beijing, or Shenzhen, we really can build all of the capability for our go-to-market customers, as well as local needs. And this is a good example of that.
So the next category we have here is tablets. And I’m starting with the Lenovo ThinkPad 10. This product continues to get better and better as we see a very popular product. Of course you have the stylus and the design language that you expect from ThinkPad with that great keyboard that connects there. But, these are tablets designed purely as tablets and keyboard is an accessory that you buy.
Another product here, the Toshiba Encore, this is a nice 10-inch tablet and the great thing with 10-inch tablets, and Tony talked a little bit about this, is the differentiation that Microsoft provides. You know, a Microsoft tablet provides the ports that you want, the peripheral support that you want, obviously coming from the Windows platform, as well as the ability to have ink, as you just saw in the ThinkPad 10, as well as an incredible touch browser and also the speed to work online and offline. That’s why the Windows tablets are better.
And also these 10-inch and the 8-inch tablets that we’ll get to come with Office, as well as Windows. So you can be productive, or you can just sit and browse the Web, or do comments online, or whether it’s just social networking, you get the best of both worlds. This is a really nice piece of design from Toshiba, the 10-inch there.
The next couple of devices here are industry tablets and now you start thinking about, take the power of Windows Professional, the ability to join domains, secure, and bring all of that capability of the enterprise right to the very point of interaction between the human at the very end point and we see these industry tablets. This one here is the Advantech tablet. You can see here it’s ruggedized. You can see you have a lockable dock with port replicator. But, you see a mag stripe reader. That’s just an example of how you can take industry tablets, build businesses on them, build integration and really provide the platform for ISVs, or the independent software vendors, to build commercial applications and build businesses around them.
This is the Arbor Gladius, and again you start to see this incredible ruggedized design with a very specific, unique vertical keypad on the side here, and again a mag stripe reader. And these are modular cases, so that you could add a bar code scanner, or a mag stripe reader very easily.
IEI the ICEROCK 3, again, ruggedized with barcode reader and biometrics, whether it’s the retail environment, the military environment, the healthcare environment, you can really start to see the application of taking an enterprise-grade platform like Windows and Windows Server and Windows Professional, coupled with the incredible innovation of the Windows ecosystem and the hardware ecosystem across design, as well as manufacture, and really start to build these incredible scenarios. I talked earlier about 90 percent of enterprises plan on spending money on mobility. These are the kinds of solutions that enterprises will buy in the next year, 90 percent of them are thinking about mobility.
The one I like to show at the top there, which is the WinMate device, and this is really showing about how the peripherals and ports in use cases can really be a business to themselves. And this actually shows a car mount. So you can see there this is an auto car mount. And you start to see the businesses really start to take access of these incredible tablets on the go, whether it’s touch or whether it’s just different environments, ruggedized, harsh environments, mobile environments, this is where we’re seeing rapid growth.
Now, of course, tablets keep getting smaller and more affordable and this is the next piece of news I’ve got. So again, this is an industry first. And right now this is the Toshiba 7-inch. And so this is a 7-inch device from Toshiba running Windows, again, really, really nice device. Let’s see if we can get the camera shot there, thin, light, you’ve got this beautiful textured finish in this champagne gold. 
And what I will say, and I promised Murato-san and the team that we wouldn’t talk price, but what I will say on this device is this will be competitive with other 7-inch devices in the industry. So very, very exciting, beautiful form factor. And as you can imagine Windows, Office, Xbox services, this is Windows to Go, Windows in your pocket at an incredibly exciting aggressive and competitive price. So that’s an industry first today. Great work from the Toshiba team, the Intel team, the Microsoft team to bring that together.
A couple of next devices, again, sort of more on the ruggedized theme. The Panasonic SDM 1, great ruggedized tablet. You can see here the extensibility of the scanner and the modular approach on here. And this is ingress proof, so you start thinking about dustproof and soundproof and waterproof. The Panasonic Tough Pad team does a super, super job with that.
And then at the top there we see another device from one of our partners, and that’s the AmFor  device. So we’re starting to see the ability for us to be able to support many, many partners, and also many, many local needs. So you really can customize these devices by the geographic needs or customer vertical needs.
This is the AAEON RTC-700, another good example of an industry tablet with a mag stripe reader. So you are starting to see secure, ruggedized devices in this business booming.
The next category here, we really start to show now some of our device prototypes from our partners as well as from our ODM and independent design partners.
This is from the OEM Hiya. Again, nice device here. You can start to see this 8-inch device. Really nice features. What in particular we like here is the use of materials and finish. You have this metal material here obviously coupled with this really nice white effect with this good-looking cover, speakers on the top. And, again, the things you’d expect from a Microsoft Windows tablet, ports, peripherals, and this is incredible touch browser and experience. Nice device for Microsoft and Intel there.
We see more devices here. This is the Vivo Tab, and again as we start to look through, this is South Digital device. Two devices from our OEM partner Emdoor here, very nice devices. Again, 7-inch, 8-inch devices. So we’re starting to see this innovation, but also new price points really accelerate the market.
And then, again, these are device prototypes from our ODM partners that we’ll work with in a very deep, new way to enable us to bring new markets as well as new price points. You’ve seen the changes we’ve made in terms of how we support our partners with things like the Windows Hardware Partner Program for phones with Qualcomm as well as some of the changes we’ve made to licensing and policy to really enable and relax restriction as well as increase velocity of time to market to be able to partner together.
And I think this is a year, and someone said it to me earlier in the week, Microsoft broke a lot of glass this year and has really helped the ecosystem. And I hope you feel the humility of us listening, but at the same time the aggression and the excitement that we have of helping you build your businesses, and the changes we’ve made to do that.
This is a good example. This is a four-by-three prototype. So you really are enabled to build the devices that you would like. This is a four-by-three aspect ratio. And if this is something that you have a specific customer need for, as you well know, we can build it on Windows. And that’s a nice prototype of the four-by-three form factor.
Last, but not least, and some of the things that I hold so dearly to my heart is Windows phones from our partners. This first phone here is a wonderful device from Yez. This is a 4.7 Windows Phone. And you’ll notice there, and you’ll see this, having said that, in Nick’s presentation earlier. This is running Windows Phone 8.1, so you can see the new icons. But they really are some beautiful phones. This is available in Central and Eastern Europe. I don’t know if you can see there. A nice phone, nice colors, all the available colors. Really nice form factor, lovely glass.
The Prestigio phone here, and I met the chaps from Prestigio and their ODM team here this week. Again, very, very high quality. Look at the quality of this device, really nice screen, and you can see they’re running Windows 8.1 for phone there. This lovely metal finish, the really high-quality Prestigio logo as well as an 8-megapixel camera. Again, very, very popular phone in Europe from a great brand. We’re really bringing these differentiated experiences to enable customer choice as well as very, very high-end technology and fashion to our customers.
A couple more that I’ll just show here. We have a phone here from one of our OEMs, BLU, and at the top here we have the Westrom Tiger. When you start to start seeing some of these bigger form factors, and you’ll see us make some of those markets and create some of those markets with a couple of the Nokia phones, we really do enable ourselves to establish this as a real true experience that customers get a lot of value out of. When you start thinking about the phablet space, these bigger phones with Office Mobile, you start to really be able to get work done and have a differentiated experience on these devices still using all of that personalization you get from Windows Phone versus some of those other fragmented ecosystems.
And that’s the WESTROM Tiger. It’s a 6.5-inch phablet. We’ve got this lovely design here, this Kung Pao 6-inch, from Randafoka Kung Pao again, really nice. You can see it there running Windows 8.1 update and the Windows button on the side and so on.
Really nice designs that can be picked up around the world, we have the In Focus 5-inch design there, the Pegatron Oasis, again, 5-inch design, the device here from BYD. So you’re starting to see such incredible diversity and real innovation in these form factors. So people don’t need to just look the same. They really can have the device that’s right for them; designed for the environment they’re in.
And finally this is a great piece of design here, which is a ruggedized Windows phone from Quanta. Look at how cool that is. This is a ruggedized design, everything you’d want from a rugged design, as well as the protection you’d expect from a phone in that environment, built on the Windows Phone platform, and of course with Office in your pocket there’s really no limits to the innovation that you can get.
So I would like to say thank you, because it’s everyone in this room that’s enabled that incredible innovation to come to market and thank you for the continued partnership as we find the customers and sell together. And what I’d really like to do now is transition on that theme of innovation, which was ours together, to think about the next 10 to 15 year of Microsoft and welcome up Dr. Hon who actually runs the Microsoft Research Center for Asia for us, and he’ll talk a little bit about the future and the next 10 years.
So thank you for your collaboration and let’s invite up Dr. Hon. 
Nice to see you.
 Nice to see you.
 So we’re going to sit down and do a few questions if you don’t mind for the audience. This should be exciting.
So Hon, I’ll call you Hon, that’s what we call you at work. So, Hon, you’re local. Tell us a little bit about what it’s like kind of coming home to Taiwan. 
 Yes, so I’m really excited. I actually was born within. Some people probably know where it is. And I grew up here, all the way through my college. I finished my college at the National Taiwan University and went to the U.S. to get my Ph.D. and came to Microsoft almost 20 years ago. So here’s me and my parents, my sister and brother all live here. So I come back on a constant basis.
Also in my job, heading the research facility in Beijing, we call Microsoft Research Asia, the Taiwan academics in university, government, industry, are really our very usual collaborators. So I actually come here on a regular basis. So I’m very grateful to be here with you and then also see all this exciting Microsoft product lineup.
 Now, it’s great to have you here. So as we start to think about the role of Microsoft Research in the company, what does Microsoft really do and what does particularly the Microsoft Research in Asia that you run for us, tell me a little bit about that business and what that does?
 Great. So I think our mission, first and foremost, is actually about collaboration ecosystem partnerships, because I’m sure you’ll agree with me in the entire human being history the technology advance cannot rely on any single company, any single university, or any single nation. So I think we need to collaborate to actually advance with what we call state of the art in all the fundamental technologies required for the IT industry. And I think that’s really the role of the Microsoft Research.
You will also agree with me, the IT sector has the rapid change and I think technology changes just so fast and I think the paradigm shift happens so often the company that misses the trend there will be severe consequences. So I think our goal first and foremost is working with the entire academic and the industry to advance the state of the art.
And of course, I think we actually have more than about 1,000 Ph.D.s working in Microsoft Research worldwide and we have about 200 such people working in Beijing. And then we can actually go to university to be a professor. Actually to tell the truth, we actually have five Turing Award winners. I’m sure most of you know the Turing Award in our area is the Nobel Prize. And then this year we just have fresh out of the oven Leslie Lamport just won this year’s Turing Award.
And then we actually have a Fields Medal winner who is, again, Nobel Prize in mathematics, we also have one in research. And then, like I said, why we are not in university but in Microsoft is because the exploration for our work is really to deliver an innovative product with a technology from Microsoft Research that’s used and enjoyed by billions of the users worldwide. And that’s why we are in Microsoft. In Microsoft Research we call this technology transfer. And today, actually, there are many demos where they actually come from MSR technology, just two of them showing today, the swipe the swipe input, which comes from Microsoft Research, and then the Cortana, the speech, actually my own area, and which also comes from the technology that comes from Research. We actually invent, Microsoft as a company, we invent almost 30 years ago, 35 years.
And the third one, really like I say, the technology transfers rapidly. It’s more the style we use innovation to ensure Microsoft in the future. And to quote our CEO Satya who just said lately, in our industry there is no respect for tradition, there is only respect for innovation. And our job is to help Microsoft work with the rest of R&D to deliver the innovative products.
 I mean it’s phenomenal just to hear in your team, like you say, you’ve got five Turing Awards. This is just a phenomenal group of people that are really sort of plotting the future of our company with our partners. This is ultimately enabling them to partake in so much of the future.
So I guess that kind of leads me to the next question, which is, and it’s a very big question, when you start to think about the future of computing, and also the role of computer science in the future of computing, how do you think about that? Because with us and our partners a lot of what you do, as you talked about, like Cortana or Kinect, ultimately just ends up in technology that we share and we build capabilities on. The future of computing and how computer science works, what’s your views on that?
 So I think to say this, let me bring some historical perspective just myself. I don’t consider myself very old, but I’m not very young. When I started in college, the whole entire university tied up. We share one computer as big as this room called a mainframe. And then today this mainframe is smaller than a mobile phone. Actually today, you can easily buy something which is more powerful than the mainframe computer we shared back really less than 30 years ago. And not to mention, we actually have many of them. Sales people carry multiple phones, multiple wearables, multiple PCs. So when we talk about Microsoft today, devices and services, and then having, of course, 30 years ago, when I first started doing computer science, there is no device concept. There is probably the whole room. Today even though we talk about container datacenters, they were at that time even bigger containers. And services, at that time we actually do have an Internet. The Internet was actually started in 1969, which is 45-50 years ago. But the Internet stayed something very academic, which is far away from service, not to even mention to the general public. And the Internet really started, the HTML browser, 95, which is I think is less than 20 years ago. So I think it’s amazing how soon this device and service really becomes every part of our life.
And then talking about the future of technology, now this is a historical perspective, this will show you how exciting it is. And now, first, I think when people talk about machine learning today, actually, Nick, you also talked about a lot of the machine learning. And I think people also talk about artificial intelligence. And I think the excitement about really something to learn from data, from your behavior, watch how you do things. And then, just like a human being, the most amazing ability of a human is learning, and do something better, learn from mistakes, learn also to succeed to reinforce, all this kind of stuff which is almost everything we do today there is machine-learning in there.
Now if you look at  if we deviate from technology and look at the user point of view, what’s most important to us? First, start with the individual, right? So we talk about NUI, all the technology, speech, computer vision, all the bio-sensor, and the Cortana, we’re talking about personal, and we have all the sensors that can sensor ourselves. People also talk about health, this wearable which can actually get your vital signs to help you to do all these kinds of things.
So this NUI, this natural user interface, which can really take your input sent to you and always be there to provide the basis to provide the personal assistant. And I think that’s amazing. I mean, I think of Cortana. I don’t know how many people just saw a movie lately called Her, H-e-r. It’s a virtual OS, the OS1, which would be their OS with you, and it’s like your guardian angel. Even though I’m very excited we actually have a Cortana shipped, but I think they’ve just barely scratched the surface.
Thinking about how a personal assistant can do for you 24 by 7, and never will complain about work and then also taking care of your digital work, also your digital life. And they have a harmony and then not only you will not miss meetings, and always prepare you for the next thing, proactively helping you, and yes, it’s virtual and you also feel secure to really talk to an assistant, which can really know so much about you. So I think that’s will absolutely be in the next 10 to 15 years we will really have something close to what you see in the movie called Her, right.
And then start individual, now, we cannot live alone so this is why we need social, we need social networks. But, I want to explain a little bit. I know people will say what does Microsoft have to do with social networks? If you’re thinking about the whole  in Microsoft we call it information  start with search engine, Bing, and then also Bing not only knows about the Web, and then the Web is actually  it’s the whole human intelligence all together, because look at all the Web pages, and all the nice things, the Wikipedia, all this nice knowledge there. And I think the reason Cortana can be  the movie Her can provide you with this assistance it’s because all this collective knowledge, not just a single guy, the entire human intelligence we call the information fabric, which gets you the information you want. This has never happened before.
And then we talk about AI. Some people who probably touch AI will know, where AI started was to simulate people’s intelligence. But, today we can do far more than that. The human plus this assistant, plus AI, you can do a super man, which is something no human can do before, no machine can do before, this combination.
So I’m really optimistic. I know the movie always shows machines combined with humans. But, I think if you look at the entire history it’s always human plus machinery, whether it’s a knife in the Stone Age, or a human and the car, we always combine. We can do something that’s never been done before.
Now the last not least, how about environment? Well, I come from Beijing, every day people are talking about smog and all this  and even Taiwan Taipei I think the air quality is probably also getting slightly worse in the last few years. So the environment, the harmony with the environment is absolutely important. Today we have something called Internet of Things. The nice thing about Internet of Things is we can really sense anything that happens surrounding us. And I think it’s really pervasively, everywhere, every time, any time.
So I think once we have this, and this is everything all combined, so big data, everything about yourself, everything about this human society, everything about the everything in the world, if you have the ability to get the data, you look at the  again, I always mention the historical, history. My wife is a history major. So I always, of course, I need to understand history, right. So I think if you look at the entire human history it’s always a so-called feedback cycle. You actually  we have all this imagination, then we build something, we actually deploy it, then based on the data we come back, we find a way to improve this thing and continue iterating.
It used to be you take a year, or even hundreds of years to close a cycle. Today with devices and services, with all this wearable, PC, personal devices, you can really quickly get the data and the cycle through. And then within days we can improve one cycle, or even several cycles. So I think we used to say the sky is the only limit. I would say this is too conservative. And I think you probably should say the universe is the only limit. So I think I’m so excited about the future.
 I love that. The universe is only the limit. That’s what I like to hear. As a sales and marketing guy I know that you’re going to have me working on the universe, so let’s just make sure we keep that very clear to my manager.
So when you start thinking about the actual things you’re working on and sort of now let’s kind of just get it a little bit more specific, particularly for this audience, what are the things that you just love the most? What are the things you’re most passionate? For me it’s like the new devices and how we work with customers and our partners. What is it for you?
 So I think that we mentioned Cortana. I really was an AI major and I started with speech recognition 30 years ago when I was a college student. And then it’s really so refreshing, so satisfying to see Cortana where our competitor doing the Siri Google now, now becomes mainstream a product and people rely on the day-to-day basis, the personal assistant. I talk about Her, and I think I just cannot say how exciting. And then like I say, we’re just barely scratching the surface. 
And I think today with all this big data, and the system knows so much about me, and also knows so much about the world, the human and the society, knowing all that’s happening. I mean my advisor, who is yet also another Turing Award winner, I feel very proud of. I was with him yesterday, he visited us in Beijing. And we talked about this guardian angel concept. You extend this Her/Cortana concept so a lot of things really can be prevented. I mean, earthquakes, maybe the thunderstorm, the typhoon, some of this you really can be  if you can get a tsunami, or even sometimes an unfortunate terrorist event, if you can just get this notification or alert or some kind of probability that tells you the time, the place, someplace might have something happen. Well, I know Taipei also has some unfortunate things happen lately, some really unfortunate thing happening in the subway system. Some of this can be communicated, just like thinking about the movie. It’s not that really a disaster or some of the things can really be prevented, and then, like I say, even just ten minutes before, and how much we can do. And I think that we are really close in that we start with this Cortana. And I think it’s really exciting.
And I think that all the technology you talk about big data, NUI, speech recognition, natural language, search, all this all combined. Although in Microsoft we call them task completion, and I think every day you try to do a lot of things, this could be a project working with me. It could be something I promised my wife, when I go home I need to have a shopping list to bring milk and cookies for tomorrow’s breakfast. And I want them both. In the past, you need to make the choice, well, I forgot this, this is more important. And plus, something I do not anticipate, I might get a proactive notification, proactive health, and I think that’s really what we talk about. And then this is really comes from my own view, and I just cannot wait to go back to the lab working with my colleagues to actually push releases out.
 I think speech recognition is just phenomenal to see the past, so I can truly understand why you’re passionate, and also the ability, like you say, to connect that information from every part of our society and then use it to be predictive, to actually enable feedback to our society. That’s just wonderful.
The next question is, a lot of people in the audience, particularly in this audience because of the innovation edge that they live on, is a lot of the technology or some of the technology we have today actually was built in Microsoft Research and then comes to the ecosystem. Why don’t you give us another example of a product that you are working on and how that’s starting to come to market?
 OK. I think some of you probably know about a week ago our CEO Satya, actually participated in the Code interview in the U.S. and then Gurdeep, who is our CVP in Skype, and to demonstrate and also announce our intention to ship something called Skype speech-to-speech translation soon. And I think that today when I actually work, I’m a local guy so what I speak is Chinese or English with you. And I really wish very soon we really can solve this problem, which is doing it simultaneously speech-to-speech translation. And as we know, language is a big barrier for people to communicate if you don’t understand each other’s languages.
So we built this real-time. The end goal is any pair, but we’ll start with some language pairs to do a speech-to-speech translation to help to break the language boundary. And I think some of you have seen the demo before, actually I also showed one about six months ago in Taiwan. I think as early as 18 months ago, my boss, Rick Rashid, showed this in China, really real-time speech-to-speech.
And I think today I actually would prepare videos, some people just want people to know and probably appreciate more what is happening behind the scenes, to actually make this happen, this real-time speech-to-speech translation.
So now here’s the video.
That is just tremendous. That is tremendous. You have one of the coolest jobs, breaking down some of the oldest barriers known to the human race just in that Skype-to-Skype. I’m very much looking forward to selling it, just so you know.
OK. So kind of next question, how will the work from Microsoft Research impact the hardware ecosystem, or hardware partners?
 So before I mention any examples, the research, the work done in Microsoft Research always is really work with the entire academics and industry to advance the state of the art. And the hardware specifically, you will always have some research in hardware. Of course, as we look at the work, our partners, you work more on this hardware space. A lot of value and intelligence is always in the software. So I’m sure you agree with me and over time software/hardware boundaries might change
So the research done in MSR, we actually do those  we have a hardware technology I will give the example. But, it’s more than we work on hardware technology. We might even never really build that piece of hardware. But, the important part is to know how the hardware is used in the platform, also how do we do to promote a broad use, a mainstream use of those new hardware, not to mention the hardware and software boundary always will change from time to time, based on whatever happens in the technology.
So in terms of this space, in the research, of course now we have the product plans, we have all this stuff. Of course, we’d like to see it happen in the next 10 to 15 years, or even hopefully sooner. But, really nothing we can actually announce, and so mostly video technology. And then solve the piece which I think is very crucial, and I think we actually have  we have quite a few people in MSR working on, sensors. Early on I think we mentioned a lot of the wearable, Internet of Things, and I think intelligence, you really require intelligent sensors to actually get accurate and rapid, real-time information, which is created from the sensors like you already know, already mainstream, the accelerometer, gyroscope, those kind of things. But, now the new type are the health sensors, and I think we certainly need now all the partners and we kind of see how we can actually work together and there are some specific ones.
One particular one I’d also like to mention, I predict, in the future I would like more people to work on this, including MSR, to actually help to push into mainstream haptics. Today the mainstream, the touch screen is mainstream already. And then but most of what we do is for the touch screen to actually sense when, how and where we touch a screen. But, the feedback we get is just a glass, some glass, and then cold and hot. So I think you will agree with me, just like when we actually do games we have this force feedback joystick. So you want this with so-called haptics feedback.
And then in the mobile phone, the vibration, already is very common. Every phone has a vibration. That’s one of the haptics. The others that I think will continue to be more important hopefully one day will become mainstream, one is the friction. When you actually, kind of like your finger in a swipe is a good example, but when you actually cross the different regions on your screen, it would be nice if you have a different friction, a different texture and then this way I think it will help you, in addition to visual feedback, you know where you touch and you also know where the machine actually gets your touch.
The other one, probably could be even more useful, is the software keyboard on this screen is really very hard and then a lot of times we touch so many times we don’t know if they get it or not. There are technologies, which we’re also trying to investigate, is like can we actually create this displacement sensation, in which you feel the screen actually sinking. Of course, the screen is still  you don’t break the glass. But, it’s really possible we can do that then, and I think you will feel touch on a screen almost as good as your touch on the real keyboard.
So I think those are some things, again, I think the research we publish all the results, we want more of our partners in academics and industry to actually to do this and all together make them mainstream, just like GUI, just like the touch screen.
 That’s phenomenal. And that’s very, very relevant to the partners we have in this audience. So here’s the biggest question of all. What’s your view on the future of computing?
 Yes, I think we already said a lot about this and we talk about Microsoft is the device and the service company. And I want to mention the other aspects, which I think some people probably a lot of times, particularly in our media, this is in Microsoft what we call digital work plus digital life.
I think people often say, oh, this is enterprise software. Oh, they are a company doing this, Microsoft doesn’t go out there. They are in the consumer space. There are other companies who work on this. And then I think typically they immediately put more on the digital life.
But something I think they fail to capture, we at Microsoft, using me as an example, when I’m in the office, I’m the knowledge worker. When I go home, I want to live my life. We talk about work/life balance, and all this. But today more than that, you cannot separate it. Because of the devices and services, people mix work and life together. So this is why, and there is also a phenomenon called bring your device to work. And then which means when you are at work your wife might send you something that needs your attention. You can do it. And then when you are home, you can also do something, replies on email, and then make some work done. And so everyone always has a digital work and digital life. And I think whoever can find a way to give you the best device, best services, and then let you take care of not just work, not just life, take your work and life altogether and make you more productive, also fun, and also fulfill all the things you want to do. I think we are in a very sweet window.
And I’m really excited to be in Microsoft for the last 20 years. I completely look forward to working myself for many, and many, many years. It’s because I think Microsoft is in a very good position to really do it right, because our investment, our strength in both Office, the enterprise software, and cloud, our strength, experience in consumer, whether it’s the platform, consumer device, and the consumer services, and then Xbox investments. So I think that this digital work and digital life, I think it will be a huge paradigm shift, and I think we will definitely make sure at Microsoft we will be on the frontline of this, and Microsoft Research will make sure we’ll deliver the key technologies, whether it’s hardware, software or service.
 That’s phenomenal. It’s always so inspiring to hear you talk from Microsoft. I mean, it’s you in MSR who really are the guardian angels of our future, and it’s just so inspiring. You have a very wonderful job, and I’m so happy that you could come and talk to us. Thank you so much.
 Thank you.
 Thank you so much, Hon. I’ll see you back in the office.
So I think that wraps up our presentation, but as I leave you I would really like to think that we’ve done a very, very sort of sincere job of showing you what the customer value is that we imagine for all of our customers, and how we can partner together to grow out businesses with that. I think you’ve seen the agility and the ability of Microsoft to really break glass with how we drive our business and look forward to the future and do things that really we may not have imagined at the start of the year as we talk about our historic announcements on Windows business model and products, as well as some of the incredible innovation you’ve done, and we’ve seen some of these fast-moving device categories, and our ability to go up in them together.
So thank you very much. It’s real value and real partnership opportunity and let’s look forward to the next year together. Please reach out to us with any ideas or anything you think we can do to make your lives and your business more successful, because I truly believe with a future like that from Microsoft Research, with the engagement today that we have on Microsoft Windows, together we can win and grow our businesses.
Thank you very much. Thank you.
  As you know, the theme of our conference this year is Save the Internet, the Internet Saves.  And most of you may not know to what degree Microsoft is actually working to save the Internet.    
So with that in mind, we actually invited the general counsel of Microsoft, Brad Smith, to join us today to share with us what they're doing and have a conversation with us a little bit about what we can do together.  So welcome to the stage, Microsoft’s General Counsel Brad Smith.    
    Thank you.  It's a real pleasure for me to be here today.  This is an important group that we've been really appreciative to be a part of, to sponsor over the years.  I look at all of you in the room today, and I look at this building, and I say this is really the intersection of technology, politics, media, and democracy.    
And like all great intersections, it brings people together who are passionate.  Great conversations happen here.  But more than that, you all take these conversations, you innovate, you contribute, and you advance the public interest, oftentimes through public service and in a variety of other ways as well.  So it's a real privilege for me to join you here this morning.    
I wanted to talk to you about our perspective on what's going on in the Internet, and I'll build a bit on what you heard yesterday.    
I wanted to talk about a day we don't talk about.  After all, why should we?  I wanted to talk about the 3rd of July.  The 3rd of July, you might ask:  what the heck happened then?    
Well, if you go back in time to Philadelphia and this building, Independence Hall, it was here on the 2nd of July, 1776, that the founding fathers voted for this country to become independent.  And it was on the 4th of July, two days later, that they signed the Declaration of Independence.    
But I think it's important for us to think about what happened on the day in between, the 3rd of July, 1776.  On that morning, John Adams got up, and before he went to Independence Hall, he sat down and he wrote a letter.  He wrote the letter to his wife, Abigail, who was back in Boston.  He wrote the letter to recall the event that, in his opinion, had started everything that had led to the American Revolution.    
In his mind, throughout his life, he always traced that initial event to a specific place, this building in Boston, and to a specific time, 1761. It was to a specific case.    
It was a case that was argued in this courtroom by James Otis, who asserted that a general warrant – a warrant that gave the British Government the power to go from house to house to house to house without any probable cause as to what was inside in order to look for customs violations – was fundamentally unlawful and infringed people's basic liberties.    
James Otis argued this case in 1761 and John Adams happened to be a young man, 25 years old, who sat in the audience.  And throughout his life, he said that it was that case, that courtroom, that day, and this issue that set this country on a course for independence.
    It was 13 years after the Declaration of Independence that in a different city – this city – on a different intersection, intersection of Wall Street and Nassau Street, that that dream in many ways became a reality.  Because the building that stood there then is not the building that stands there now.    
It was this building.  It was the first capitol in which the first House of Representatives and the first Congress met.        
It was 225 years ago this Sunday that James Madison, on June 8th, stood up.  He stood up for the entire day and introduced the Bill of Rights.    
As people questioned why a bill of rights was needed, he took them back to what had happened in Boston, and the need to protect citizens from searches by the government if people's liberties were going to be preserved.    
It was because of that day in this city that there emerged the Bill of Rights and the Fourth Amendment that as you all know, provides the fundamental protection from search and seizure for people in their persons, their houses, their papers, and effects.
    For over two centuries, we've lived under the umbrella of that protection.  Technology has advanced.  Benjamin Franklin created the first mail system and people invented mail fraud, and the government had to investigate it.  But the First and Fourth Amendments persevered.    
Thomas Morse created, in effect, the software – Morse code – for the telegraph.  And guess what?  There emerged wire fraud, and the government had to investigate that too.  And the Fourth Amendment persevered.  And then of course came computing and the Internet.  And as soon as the Internet was invented, Internet fraud was certain to follow.  The fundamental question for us is how the Fourth Amendment will continue to flourish.    
There have been times in our history when things have gone in different directions.  Typically in times of war or national emergency, whether it was the Napoleonic War, the Civil War, or World War II.       
But one of the amazing things about this country is that there have always been people like you in this room who ensured that when the pendulum swung, it could always swing back.
    Even though technology changed the way governments work, in good ways and bad – technology improved people's lives but created new problems as well – we have always found a center of gravity that was true to the country's enduring values.    
The last year has been a pretty amazing one.  There is no doubt about it.  But it has forced us all to step back and, frankly, get smarter, and to think more broadly.  I think this time was inevitable because there would inevitably come a moment where the pendulum would have to swing back.    
As a company, we joined many others in our industry to increase encryption, to increase transparency, to improve contractual protections for the privacy of our customers.  But I think what we found is that there's only so much that we can do by ourselves.  And I say that not just for Microsoft, I say that for the tech sector writ large.
    We need government reform.  Even though we've taken steps to shield foreign data from the prying eyes of certain governments, we need government reform here at home.      
I give credit where I think credit is due.  Some important steps have begun to emerge.  But so many more steps are needed. 
      We need to continue to put an end to bulk collection, something that the Senate is debating this very week.       
We need to continue to improve transparency beyond the level that we achieved when Microsoft and Google sued the U.S. Government last year.  I was responsible for our negotiations.  And while we won certain rights when the government settled that case in February, there is more that needs to be done.    
We need to reform the FISA court.  It is just fundamentally alien to our principles of justice that we have a court where one side gets to tell its story and the other side is never heard.  That is the way this court works.  It is not the way the court should work as we go forward.    
And as we found when we sued the government, even when you get to the courtroom, you don't necessarily get all the information you need to stand up and defend yourself.  After all, anybody who's ever been a lawyer, wanted to be a lawyer, watched a TV show about being a lawyer, or met a lawyer, you can imagine what it is like to try drafting a reply when the government sends you their brief and it looks like this.    That is not justice.    
But most importantly, I want to talk about another place, another intersection, and another building where the future of all of these freedoms is going to be decided.  It's this intersection at Foley Square in Manhattan.     
It's this building, the U.S. Courthouse.  This building will join the ranks of the others where these decisions come front and center.    
Because we at Microsoft have sued the United States Government a second time over a search warrant that the government sent to us seeking all of the e-mail content of an Outlook.com customer.  Now, if you think back to the general warrant that James Otis stood up in Boston and protested, a warrant that gave the government the ability to go from house to house to house, this warrant would make the British blush.    
Because it, in fact, tells Microsoft to go from building to building to building and go from country to country to country throughout the cloud of Microsoft data centers -- over 100 such facilities in over 40 countries.  And go wherever we must in order to find and turn over the information that the government seeks.  It is, in a sense, the broadest possible warrant that one literally can imagine in the 21st century.    
It puts upside down the fundamental protections that the Fourth Amendment was written by James Madison to preserve.    Not only that, it upends the world, literally speaking, in another very important way.  Because in this instance, the building where this data happens to be is this building right here.     
And this building isn't even in the United States.  It's just outside of Dublin in Ireland.    So the United States Government is asserting that all U.S. companies must take their search warrants and do what the United States Government has always recognized it could never do without invading another country, and that's serve a search warrant in a foreign location.     Ireland is not Iran.  These are countries that have close relationships.  These are governments that have close ties.  This is a democracy in its own right with laws that protect its own people.      The United States has a treaty with the Irish.  It's had it for years.  It was amended just in the last 15 years.  Law enforcement know how to work with each other.  When the Irish want something that is in a data center in the United States, they use this treaty, and that's what the United States expects and demands.  Why should any other country expect or demand any less?    
The reality is we live in a world where people need to get along.  We live in a world where people have fundamental freedoms that need to be protected and preserved.  We need to live in a world where governments respect each other's borders, live up to international treaties, and most importantly, remember the principles that got us started in the first place.    In part, that's about civics.  But it's also about the world and the moral authority of the United States.    And as you all know, it's fundamentally about technology.    The important thing about technology, in my opinion, is that it's a tool.  Engineers to me, whether working at Microsoft or anywhere else, on open source, proprietary software, you name it, fundamentally do what they do, in my opinion, because they know what it can do for other people.    It really does have the ability to make people's lives better.  Technology is a tool that needs to serve people.    Government is an institution that is founded to serve people.   
Fundamentally, what we all need to continue to do together is ensure that technology and government come together in a way that serves people.    
Thank you very much.       
  Brad, that was great.  I've been at PDF for 11 years, and I have to say that's one of the most spirited defenses of democracy that I've ever heard at PDF.  Congratulations, that was great.    
  Thank you.    
  So we're going to take some questions from the audiences.  So those of you have some, please hold up your index cards and the staff will pick it up and bring it up to me in a second.    
Brad, as you were speaking, and showing the pictures of the buildings is really great.  But I couldn't help but asking:  What do you think caused this massive imbalance?  Was it September 11th?  Or was it that the technology has become so pervasive that the government doesn't understand or policymakers don't understand how to deal with the technology?  Is it the fear of what happened to us?  Or is the fear of the technology?    
  Well, I think it was both things.  Clearly, it was a response to 9/11, and all of us can understand why that happened.    
And if you put it in the perspective of history, it basically has happened every single time there's been a major war or national emergency akin to what we experienced 13 years ago.    I think that when it comes to technology, it was not a lack of understanding of what technology could do, it was, frankly, an appreciation of what it could do.  And if you think about both Washington and London, you know what we know now that people didn't know in 1945, was that early technology, by our standards, early technology, basically breaking codes, reading people's messages was fundamental to both the British and American efforts to win the war.   
And so I think that capability didn't go away.  Both countries continued to invest in it.  And when they dealt with their next national emergency, they looked to it as a tool as part of their arsenal.      But if we're at a place where our Congress doesn't completely understand how the Internet works, the public may not even understand.  Often at an event, I ask people, "When was the last time anybody read a terms of service all the way through before they clicked on the next app that they wanted to download?"  And then we have our judicial system where most of the people who run it were trained in an industrial age before the technology was this pervasive.  Where do you see us -- how do we get ourselves to a place where we can even actually honestly debate these issues in a fair way where both sides actually understand the dynamics?   
  Well, it helps if people can understand the technology better.  There's no doubt about it, I think that's where a lot of folks in this room help people in government understand how technology works.    
I do think that the understanding of technology has risen rapidly, actually, in Congress over the last decade.  I do think, though, actually, there's something about this that doesn't really have that much to do with technology.  It's about a debate between fundamental values.  One must, as one typically needs to in these situations, acknowledge there's two values that are both important:  Security and safety and personal liberty.    
But the balance went too far, at least in what is a sustainable approach, in my opinion, and it needs to be brought back.    
And just as people recognized it wasn't right to intern Japanese Americans just because they happened to be Japanese American, this is a moment when we need to stand up and explain it's not right to collect e-mail just because you can.    
  Okay.  Our first question from the audience.  Isn't there now a fundamental asymmetry, in effect, that companies no longer respect borders in their own business or conduct, but you're asking government to respect borders.    
  Well, I actually think that companies do respect borders in the sense that we actually don't have that much choice.  When you're in a country, you have to obey the law in that country.   
We do have the ability to move in a way that countries do not, you know, and so there is an asymmetry there.    
But, actually, I would take the question, and the part that I feel I grapple with most every day, is when you work in a company in this day and age, it's something that people may not necessarily perceive – it actually forces you to understand how different people think.    
When I was in Berlin three weeks ago, I had to understand why the Germans were so upset about this.  I was then in London, I had to understand how the Brits thought about this.  Ninety six percent of the people in the world don't live in the United States.  And yet, the first response of the White House last summer to the Snowden disclosures was, "Don't worry, people, we only do this to foreigners."      
We have no foreigners.  We actually have no foreigners.  We have to listen to everybody.  So I take the point in the question, but I would also turn it around and say, actually, we're forced to really think hard about how different people think about these issues.    
  So this is an interesting one.  Given the private sector's role in collecting information, does the term "big brother" need to be redefined?    
  Well, let me say this:  I am one who believes that these questions that are being asked about government also have an appropriate place and should be asked about companies.    And both companies and governments are collecting a lot of data.  And there are some in our industry who say, no, one issue is in one corner, and the other issue is in the other corner, and they don't connect.  I disagree.  I think the questions are the same, the answers may be different.  Fundamentally, people should be asking:  What can we look for in terms of transparency about our information, whether it's with governments or companies?  How do we ensure that we as people, citizens, and communities have real control over when our data is collected and how it's used?   And how do we ensure that there's accountability?  Accountability of governments is to courts, accountability by companies is to appropriate regulators and regulation.    
And this all needs to be talked about on a global basis because we do need international norms to emerge to address a lot of this.    
  So this one is interesting, too.  Can you tell us more about what was discussed -- I think in regards to negotiation -- but what was it like negotiating with the U.S.A. or with Google?  Is there a difference?    
  The first thing that is worth knowing is that whenever you have a negotiation with a large organization, it doesn't matter whether it's a big company, doesn't matter whether it's a government, doesn't matter if it's a large NGO that has a big base of members.  Frankly, the hardest thing for an institution is to know what it wants.    And in this instance, I really enjoyed working with the folks at Google, Kent Walker, the general counsel.  We were able, most of the time, pretty quickly to decide what we wanted.  And I was pretty much given the -- I was given the authority – at Microsoft, so all I had to do was ask for advice and make the decision.    The hardest thing, to be honest, was the number of voices in the U.S. Government.  A lot of times, when people don't settle a dispute, you think it's because they couldn't reach an agreement.  Sometimes it's because the entity on the other side, frankly, couldn't make up its mind.  It's a lot easier to just keep the lawsuit going and figure that the judge will eventually figure it out.    And, you know, you do have different parts of the U.S. Government.  Just even in the intelligence and law enforcement community, you have the FBI, you have the NSA.  Then you have the State Department.  You have the White House that's sort of trying to keep a distance, but in my opinion, I think it's wrong for the White House to keep a distance from legal issues that basically raise constitutional questions.    And the folks at the Department of Justice are sitting here trying to represent a client that has four different heads.  So that's the hardest thing about negotiating a resolution when you really get into the trenches on a lot of this stuff.    
  So one of our audience members wrote:  Great presentation.  Great to see where Microsoft is going.  Historically, however, Microsoft has not been great in these areas, security and customers and consumers first.  Why trust you now?     
  Well, it's a fair question.  Look, I don't believe that anybody should ever, frankly, just give somebody their trust on the basis of what they say.  I think you should watch what people do.    
And so judge us by what we do.  Yeah, push us to be transparent.  I think you all should.  I think you should push the whole industry to be transparent and we should work together to push governments to be more transparent because if we're transparent, then you can really judge us by our deeds.    Now, when it comes to technology, we're rolling out encryption.  We're creating these transparency centers so, in appropriate ways, people can inspect our code and satisfy themselves that when I say we have no back doors, you can conclude we have no back doors, et cetera.    
I will say, hey, we've done one thing that no other company has yet done.  We put in our contracts to enterprise customers that if the government comes and seeks their data, we'll litigate and go to court and tell the government they're supposed to go to the customer, not to us, to get the customer's data.  And I can tell you that we have never yet lost a case on that point.    And we also put in our contracts with enterprise customers that when data resides exclusively outside the United States, that we believe it is beyond the reach of a U.S. search warrant and we'll go to court to defend that.  That's why we're going to Foley Square to do just that.    So judge us by our deeds, and make us work to earn your trust every day.  And, you know, give us a break for what happened 14 years ago.      
  So this one has a little bit of a political overtone.  It says we keep cutting, cutting, and cutting government.  How can we make the case for austerity when it may be so harmful to democracy?    
  Well, I don't believe that one should make the case for austerity.  Actually, if you want to know what we've done as a company, you know, we stood up and, increasingly, argued for more investments in education, more investments in technology, more investments in infrastructure.    
I think there's a lot of things that companies shouldn't get out and argue about.  There are certain things we know about, there are certain things where we're just individuals who happen to have views.  But we do feel that as a company, we do have a clear point of view about the role that basic research plays in driving innovation; the role that these constitutional protections play in a free society; the role that infrastructure, whether it's sewers or airports or bridges or roads or transit, need to play, frankly, in making innovation possible so that people can come together in cities and innovate.    
And, most of all, we're passionate about education, whether it's computer science education in K-12 or universities or education writ large.  We're not the austerity company, believe me.  We have been big advocates for more investment.    
  So, essentially, so the digital divide continues to exist because we don't have enough broadband at the lowest possible cost in enough people's hands.  So I'm also a big proponent for education.  So if we're going to create a 21st-century educational system or give people the right to be able to participate in the 21st-century educational process, how can you do so with such a poor infrastructure at such a high cost?    
  Well, we need to invest in the infrastructure.  I mean, I think that's what your question basically states.    I do think we have an opportunity to look at infrastructure investments that in some cases may leapfrog technologies that exist today with new technologies that will be both more powerful and cheaper.  We look at white spaces or super Wi-Fi technology, and this is something we're investing to deploy in Africa and other places.  We need to bring broadband to everyone.    
You see a lot of interesting innovation across the industry, and here in the United States a focus on schools as sort of lighthouses for broadband accessibility.    
I very much agree.  These tools are not useful unless people can access them.      But just to push on that a little bit.  I mean, we had a presentation here yesterday by Susan Crawford who has written a book called Captive Audience, you probably know about it.  Making a pretty strong case that we have a duopoly between the telcos and the cable companies that the infrastructure is controlled by them.    
You know, how a good company, a strong company that wants to see education happen on the 21st-century basis has to enjoin itself into the battle for creating a new infrastructure.      Well, look, we do think hard because we need to get our services to consumers as well.  And they won’t get to consumers unless they make it through the transmission lines, so to speak, of the Internet architecture in the country.    We as a company have definite views.  I definitely have views that I often advocate on behalf of the company about the very question you raise.  I've also learned over the years it is probably best to jump into only one controversy a day.  So I'll jump into the surveillance controversy today, and leave Net neutrality for a different day.    
  So are you coming back next year to talk to us about Net neutrality?      
  Yeah, be happy to.    
  Okay.  So just the last thing because we have to wrap up.  This is a community of people who have been working at the intersection of innovation for a while.  Where do you think -- if you had to leave one message with this community where they could partner with Microsoft, or you think that they should enjoin with their political leaders or policymakers, what advice would you give us about how to protect our --   
  Well, we're doing more.  Dan'l Lewin, who heads our civic innovation team, is here.  We have other folks from his team.  This is a priority for us.  It's a priority in terms of investment at the top of the company.  I think we have been a little late to the party on some of these things.    
I would say two things.  Look, of course we would love for you all to look for ways that you can use our technologies and work with us.  We want to be part of what you're doing.  We want to have the opportunity, hopefully, to help you succeed because that's good for you and, obviously, that's good for us too.  That's what we're in business to try to do.    
And when we look at Microsoft Azure or the Internet of Things, we have grand dreams that we hope that we can work with many people around the world to help pursue.    
But second, keep doing what you're doing.  I don't mind if you're tough with us.  Tell us what we're doing badly.  Give us your advice.  That's what makes us smarter.  Over time, you know, hopefully that makes us better.    So don't be polite, just be direct and we'll look forward to listening to what you have to say.    
  So, Brad, thank you very much.  If anybody is interested in getting in touch with Microsoft, just reach out to me and we'll put you together with their team.  They have been really great partners with us helping us put this conference together and it seems to me, based on your comments, Brad, that the relationship is only going to get stronger as we go further into this.  So thank you very much.    
  All right, thank you.      
  I'm Cameron Kerry.  I'm the Sarah and Andrew Tisch Distinguished Visiting Fellow here at the Brookings Institution.  It's a pleasure to welcome all of you and to welcome Brad Smith.  So before we begin let me ask you to mute your cell phones.  Don't turn them off because we encourage you to tweet this at the hashtag #techprivacy.  So the format, Brad will give a few opening remarks.  We'll then have a conversation, and we'll then open it up to questions from all of you.  So get ready.  
So Ben Heineman, the long-time General Counsel of General Electric, a major American brand, wrote an article for Harvard Law School describing what he called the ideal of the modern general counsel.  And he described that as a lawyer-statesman who is an acute lawyer, a wise counselor, and company leader, who exercises leadership or shared responsibility not just for legal affairs but for positions on ethics, regulation, public policy, communications, and corporate citizenship.  
I don't know anybody who fits that description of a general counsel as much as Brad Smith.  He has been the general counsel of Microsoft since 2002, joined the company in 1993.  And last year, when the President met with people from the tech community to talk about the reactions to the Snowden Affair, along with the many chief executives, Brad Smith was there.  He has testified before Congress.  He has been involved in a range of issues from competition to the protection of intellectual property to, of course, the issues of surveillance and of rebuilding trust.  I can tell you that he is a vigorous advocate for Microsoft's positions.  I have certainly at times when I was in government gotten an earful from him.  But he has been engaged in all of that range of issues that Ben Heineman described. He has been Microsoft's voice on public policy issues.  He leads Microsoft's efforts on corporate responsibility, and community engagement as well.  So it's a real pleasure to welcome Brad here this morning to talk about the broad and difficult issues that we face in this space today.  So, Brad, thank you very much for being here.  
   Well, thank you.  It's a real pleasure for me to be here.  It's always a pleasure to be here at Brookings, and certainly to join Cam. When Cam asked me to come I said “the answer is yes, now what's the question?” And to join Darryl West and others.  There are just so many good things that happen here.    
I'm looking forward to talking about an issue that I think is quite important to the future of technology and the future of the country and the future of the world.  And I think it's especially important to bring this issue even more to Washington, because it is an issue that ironically today is getting more attention in some other national capitals than it is getting here, even though so much of the focus is about the policies and actions of the United States Government.  
But I want to address not only the issues that are important to the government when it comes to privacy, but to companies as well, because it is a broad issue.    If I start with where we are today, as we look towards the closing days of June and think about the year that we're just finishing, the image that comes to mind is this one.  It has been an extraordinary year.      
It's been an extraordinary year because it was on the 6th of June last year that the first documents were published in The Guardian from this gentleman, Edward Snowden, a person who obviously has become literally a household name in many countries around the world.  
While the debate has been prominent and it has been pronounced, I think it would be a mistake to link it all to the disclosure of these documents, because from any broad perspective the debate that we are having today about privacy as it applies to governments and even to companies is not only important and necessary.  I would even go as far as to say it was inevitable.  
If you look from a broader historical perspective, and I think that is the right place to start, one sees that this kind of debate has taken place repeatedly in American history.       There was a time in the Napoleonic War when President Adams led the effort and supported the work of Congress to enact the Alien and Sedition Act, and freedom of expression was reduced.  But then there was a broader debate that followed.  Similarly, President Lincoln suspended the Writ of Habeas Corpus during the Civil War.  President Roosevelt interned Japanese-Americans solely because they were Japanese-American.  And there have been, therefore, multiple times in the nation's history when steps were taken in a moment of crisis to protect the public safety.  But ultimately when the moment has passed, the question has always arisen:  where should the pendulum rest once that moment has come to an end?  
That is the question before us today as we look past the horrific events of 9/11.  We need to look forward and ask ourselves how do we want the balance to be struck for the longer term for our country?    
I think when you think about the longer-term, it makes sense to start in many respects where our country began, and think hard about the values that have been at the bedrock of our society literally since the 1700s.  
It was in this building that you see here in Philadelphia, Independence Hall, where, as virtually every American who made it through high school will recall, that it was on the second of July 1776 that the colonies voted for their independence.  And then it was here two days later, on the fourth of July, when the Founders signed the Declaration.  But I think it's interesting today to reflect on what happened the day in-between, the day no one talks about. After all why should they? The third of July, 1776.   It was on that morning that this person, John Adams, got up and before going over to Independence Hall, sat down and wrote a letter to his wife Abigail, who was back in Boston.  And he used that letter to reflect on what he thought had started it all, the seminal event that had led to the American Revolution.   In his mind, throughout his life, he always traced that seminal event to this building, the State House in Boston.     
He traced it to a specific case that was argued in 1761 in the painting that captured this that was created later. It was a case that was argued by James Otis, and it was all about one issue.  It was about the ability of the British Government to use what was called a general warrant, or as some called it a writ of assistance, and go from house to house to house to house to look for customs violations without any probable cause that there was any evidence of a crime committed within.  Interestingly, this was an issue on both sides of the Atlantic.  James Otis argued it in Boston in 1761.  A Member of Parliament, John Wilkes, argued it successfully in London just a year later.  And on both sides of the Atlantic the argument was made that this kind of governmental ability to enter a premise without any particular probable cause about evidence of a crime within was a fundamental violation of civil liberties.    John Adams, as it turned out, when this case was argued in 1761 was a young man 25 years old, studying to become a lawyer, and he sat in the audience.  And he would always say to the day he died that it was that case, that court room, that day and this issue that set this country on a course for independence.  It was 13 years after the Declaration of Independence was signed that in many ways that principle was fully realized.  It was in a different building.  It was on the corner of Wall Street and Nassau Street in Manhattan.  And the building that stood there then is not the building that stands there now.    It was this building.  It was the first capitol of the new government, after the completion of the new Constitution.         
And it was in this room where the first House of Representatives met.          And it just so happens that it was 225 years ago this month, on the eighth of June, that James Madison stood up for the entire day and introduced and defended the concept of having a Bill of Rights.  As anybody who knows history will appreciate, even when James Madison stood up he was not necessarily the tallest person in the room.  But he commanded the respect of everyone's ear.  And as the afternoon wore on, people challenged him as to why a Bill of Rights was needed.  After all Madison had not been an early proponent.    Interestingly, he took people back to that case in Boston.  He explained that a government that had the authority to protect public safety, that had the authority to collect revenue, that had the authority under the constitution to do everything that was necessary and proper to fulfill those responsibilities, also needed to have limits.    One of the limits he pointed out was the need for what became the Fourth Amendment – the right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects from unreasonable search and seizure.  And in particular, as the Fourth Amendment calls out, it was made clear that there would never be a general warrant in the United States, because the government could get a warrant only based on probable cause, and only by satisfying, with particularity, a belief that there was evidence of criminal activity within a specific premise.  Now, ever since that time, technology has advanced and we have lived under the protection of the Fourth Amendment.      
Benjamin Franklin invented the Postal System.  Criminals invented what became known as mail fraud.  And even though people took their private communications and it left their house, in fact, they literally gave it to the government – that’s what people do when you send something through the mail – the courts held that the Fourth Amendment applied and people had a reasonable expectation of privacy of what was in a sealed envelope.  
Similarly, Thomas Morse created, in effect, the software for the telegraph.  The telegraph exploded.  Criminals invented wire fraud.  The government had to investigate it, and yet the Fourth Amendment continued to apply.    As soon as the computer and the Internet were invented Internet fraud was certain to follow.  And the fundamental question – certainly one of the fundamental questions for our day – is what the Fourth Amendment will mean in this new Internet age.  
Ultimately as we think about these questions we need to think about the three goals that clearly are important.    It is of course right and proper to say that public safety – the protection of our country – remains a paramount concern for our government.  It is and always will be, just as it has been in the past.      
This is certainly an issue that we appreciate acutely at Microsoft.  We perhaps more so than any company in the tech sector have invested in a digital crimes unit that works with law enforcement to protect children, to protect senior citizens, to protect consumers, not just in this country, but around the world, from fraud, and malware, and other threats to public safety.   
We can't talk about government surveillance without starting by acknowledging that we must continue to protect the public.  But, equally there are other goals, as well.    We need to ensure that the fundamental freedoms enshrined in the Bill of Rights retain the type of meaning in the 21st Century that they had in the centuries that preceded us.        
And third, we need to think about technology, as well.  As a company Microsoft played one of the more unique roles in taking an invention that looked like this – it was bigger than a house, it wouldn't even fit in this room.   
Instead it turned into something that a young Bill Gates could dream would literally become a device that would be at every desk and in every home.   
And in doing that it was about much more than making these devices smaller.  This device was given a name for a reason.  It was the personal computer.  It was about democratizing technology.  It was about creating a tool that everybody could use to make their lives better.  
But, of course, as people moved their private information from their desk drawer to their desktop, it was also abundantly clear that people needed to trust this technology, as well.  People will use technology only if they trust it.    And as we now live in an era where data is moving from the desktop to the data center and the cloud, we need to find a way that protects public safety, preserves our fundamental freedoms, and promotes trust in this technology all at the same time.   I believe that if we put our minds to it, that is an achievable goal.  It's certainly something that we've been thinking about at Microsoft for some time.  People often ask us, did we really just start to focus on this hard after the Snowden documents were disclosed?  And the answer, of course, is no.  We experienced these issues shortly after 9/11, as did the entire country.   Some of this actually came to light in an article that The Guardian published last July.  It covered a specific document that was leaked from the NSA.  It's a document that summarized a report of the inspector general.  It talked about a voluntary program where the NSA had gone out to telephone and Internet companies and asked them voluntarily to provide access in bulk to a lot of communications content, including e-mail.  
And interestingly, the IG's report does not name names in terms of companies, but it talks about a number of companies.  They're called Companies A through H.  One of the companies that got our attention when we read the document was Company F.    
It turns out that if you read this document it says that in October of 2002 the NSA talked with people from the company's Department of Legal and Corporate Affairs.  I can tell you that today in the tech sector there are several companies that have Departments of Legal and Corporate Affairs.  But, I can also tell you that in October of 2002 there was only one tech company that I know of that had a department with that name.  It was Microsoft.  
And if you read the rest of the report it says that the NSA asked Company F to turn over in bulk e-mail content and that Company F said no.    
We thought hard about how to deal with the questions that had arisen.  I still remember meeting with Steve Ballmer, our CEO, in the fall of 2002.  I remember, in fact, talking about John Adams and Abraham Lincoln and Franklin Roosevelt and how the decisions we would make would need to stand the test of time.  They would need to be the right decisions for the moment, but they also would need to be the right decisions when the moment passed, because it was clear that it would.  
And fundamentally what we came to was what we felt was the right principled approach.  That the only basis on which it made sense for us to turn over the private communications of our customers to any government in the world, including our own, was pursuant to the rule of law and pursuant to legal process.    
After all no one had elected us.  If the United States Government felt that it had a need for the private communications of our customers, it should turn to legal process.  And if it felt that legal process didn't go far enough, it shouldn't ask us for help.  It should turn to Congress, because that is the way that the fundamental rights of citizens should be protected and regulated in a democratic society.  And I continue to believe that that principle above all has served us well in the past and will continue to serve us well in the future.    
That's one of the reasons last summer we sued the government.  We started to read these stories in The Guardian and elsewhere that talked about the government's access to massive amounts of data.  Yet we knew that we had not turned any data over voluntarily, and we knew what we had turned over pursuant to legal process and it was a relatively small amount of information.  We had a hard time reconciling these public reports of government access to large amounts of data with the relatively small amounts that we knew had been provided.    
In a sense, the answer that unlocks the riddle was provided by Bart Gelman of The Washington Post in this story on the 30th of October last year.  The Post reported that the NSA, either by itself or in collaboration with another government, acting outside United States territory had tapped into the data centers or cables of Google and Yahoo!  There was no report about Microsoft, but we had to assume that if the government was interested in some companies, and had managed to get access to data in some companies without them knowing, that it might well have done so for other companies as well.  
That continues to be a factor that has fundamentally influenced the way the entire tech sector looks at all of these issues today.  We knew what we were being asked to do.  We knew what we were being required to do.  We didn't know what was being done without our knowledge.  And we still do not know all of that even today.  It led Microsoft and indeed, many other companies to take a number of new steps.  We encrypted more data, basically the data for all of our services.  We took new steps to promote transparency and to increase contractual protection for our customers.    
I will say, I do believe that President Obama took an important first step when he gave his speech at the Justice Department in January of this year.  It was a first step.  It was an important step.  But fundamentally we need more steps to follow.  The President framed the issue correctly in my opinion.  He fundamentally said that this is about how we in the 21st Century continue to protect the public safety and hold true to the fundamental values of our country and the Constitution.    There have been some additional steps that have followed.  The government settled the case that we and Google and others had filed so that we could publish more information.  And on the third of February, we did that.   And we showed that in the six month period that was covered in the first report, we had responded to fewer than 1,000 FISA orders, and that those orders had covered less than 16,000 user accounts.  That was a good step.     But more steps are needed.  We do need Congress, in my opinion, to close the door on unfettered bulk collection of data.  The House got us close, and we should all hope that the Senate can get us the rest of the way so that the public here and around the world can have the fundamental trust it deserves in the technology it uses every day.  That is a first step.  
I think another step we need to focus more on is the role and nature and proceedings of the FISA Court.  I think it's important to step back and remind ourselves of what an unusual court this is when you compare it to the tradition of American jurisprudence.    This is a court that meets in secret, not a public court that deals with specific documents under seal.  This is a court that has only 15 judges that are appointed by one person, the Chief Justice of the United States.  Every one of those judges of course was first confirmed by the Senate as a District Judge, but this is not the way that cases are typically handled in our country.    This is a court that does not publicly publish its opinions.  It's a court that creates law that the American public is not permitted to read.    And perhaps most importantly, this is a court, unlike other courts in our history or today, in which only one side gets to tell its story.  If there is one fundamental principle that has been used to ensure that American courts not only act pursuant to the law, but pursue results that promote justice, it is the adversary system.  It's a system that lets lawyers for two sides argue their case.  The adversary system is missing before this court.  The President has proposed certain steps to create an advocate, but even that small step has not yet been embraced by Congress.    And, of course, as we found when we brought our lawsuit against the government, a lawsuit that went before the FISA court, it's hard to be a litigant before this court.  Anyone who has ever wanted to be a lawyer, met a lawyer, or seen a lawyer on TV, can imagine what it’s like to be a lawyer when you receive a brief from the government that has a page that looks like this.  This is not the type of approach that is likely to promote justice.  And yet I will point out that the irony is that companies like ours are required to have lawyers with the highest levels of national security clearance so we can comply with the court's orders.  And yet, if we have the security clearance needed to read the orders and comply with them, do we not deserve at least the right to read what the government is arguing when it is litigating against us?  There is more room for more discussion about more reform.    
I think another step that we in our industry continue to look for is the assurance that our Constitution and the Fourth Amendment will apply to us as American citizens and American companies even when we're outside the United States.    We do not believe that the United States Government should hack into the data centers of United States companies outside the rule of law.  We deserve, as the courts have recognized, not only over the decades but centuries, that we continue to benefit from the protection of the Fourth Amendment even when we are abroad.  
Finally, there's one other issue that has assumed growing importance that deserves more attention here in Washington.  It is the issue that, when I was in Berlin last month, everybody wanted to talk about.    It's about the geographic scope of warrants today that are pursued by the United States Government.  Because what the U.S. Government has been doing is serving warrants on companies like Microsoft that have data centers.  And they're giving us an account name.  And they are telling us to go from building to building to building, and from state to state to state, and even from country to country to country if that's what it takes, to pull all of the information that belongs to that customer and turn it over to the government.  If you think back to the general warrant to which James Otis objected in 1761, this is a warrant that would have made the British blush, because it is so much farther sweeping in its scope.    But there are some who say, it's a new day.  People are no longer keeping their information in their house.  It's unduly burdensome to expect the government to know where people actually have information and plead with particularity as the Constitution requires where someone should pursue a search.  But I think it's worth reflecting on the fact that this is not a new problem.  It is not a new issue, and it is not an unsolvable problem either. 
This problem actually was created in 1886 when a gentleman named Henry Brown ﬁled for the ﬁrst patent application for the safety deposit box.      
It was at that point that people actually started moving some very valuable papers out of their homes and into banks.         And, of course, banks started out small, but security deposit boxes started to spread.  And banks today are major institutions.              Look how many branches Citibank has on the island of Manhattan where the ﬁrst Congress met.         
Look at the number of locations around the world where Citibank has branches.         And yet since 1886 and to this day, it is accepted by law enforcement and the courts alike that the government cannot serve a warrant on Citibank and give the name of a customer and tell Citibank to be its deputy and search all of its branches for any safe deposit box that customer might have.  Instead the government must do some legwork.  It must pursue an investigation.  And it must plead with particularity the branch where the safety deposit box exists to which the warrant applies.  
If this has been a solvable problem since the 1880s, I think we have to ask ourselves if there isn't a better way to solve it in the year 2014 than by deputizing technology companies and telling them to look literally everywhere on the planet.   Because, in this case, there is a case that does reach that far.  It's a question that fundamentally raises issues of trust, not just for American citizens but for citizens around the world.   That's why we at Microsoft have challenged a warrant that the government has issued, a warrant that is now being litigated in federal court in Manhattan.     
In this case, there's not only the question of the generalized nature of the warrant, but it's fundamentally a question of how the world is going to work.    Are governments going to think about each other's borders or are they going to reach literally as far as they can based on the nationality of their data center providers anywhere that they want?  Because in this case, when we found out who the customer was, we found that it was a customer that was from Europe.   And we found that the data center in which this customer's data resides is not in the United States.  It's on this island.  It's in the Republic of Ireland.         It's in this town west of Dublin.   It's down the street from this little corner.          And it is in this building: a Microsoft data center. And hence we have objected.  We've pointed out that under the Electronic Communications Privacy Act, Congress did not give the United States Government the authority to execute warrants outside the United States.    It did not give the government the authority to ask tech companies to literally break down the digital doors of their facilities and go look at what was inside and turn it to the Government.    Ultimately, we think it's important to recognize, this is Ireland.  It is not Iran.  This is a country that has a close relationship with the United States.       This is a democracy that protects the rights of its people.  If the U.S. Government is going to seek to reach into Ireland unilaterally, on what basis can the United States Government possibly stand up and object when other governments seek to reach into data centers that are here in the United States?  
Ultimately in the short-term people may think that this is about protecting the rights of the American public by giving law enforcement access to information elsewhere.  But it is every bit as much about protecting the rights of Americans.  If we want to protect the rights of Americans for data that exists in the United States, we as a country need to pursue principles that can be applied across the board.  And, hence, we believe that we need to turn to the courts.  We need to rely, in this instance, on the Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty that exists between the United States and Ireland.  This is not an old treaty written in the 1880s.  This is a treaty that was written after 9/11.  It's a treaty that creates the basis for fast and efficient cooperation between law enforcement agencies and the courts in our two countries.  
And ultimately we need to look for better solutions.  Yes, there are times when law enforcement in one country will need access to data that's held in a data center in another country.  But it should look in the first instance for opportunities to do this in a collaborative way with our allies, and it should do it under principles that ensure that even if the U.S. Government does act unilaterally, there are limiting norms that people can understand and respect both under U.S. Constitutional principles and under the kinds of norms that can genuinely exist on a worldwide basis. Ultimately, I think it's worth stepping back and reflecting on the nature of the discussion that literally is sweeping around the world when it comes to privacy.   Here in the United States, the forefront of this discussion has been about what is fundamentally the relationship between governments and citizens around surveillance.  Interestingly, in Europe over the last 20 years, there has also been a vibrant debate.  It has tended to focus not so much on government but on companies and the degree to which companies access data and how they use data from consumers.  
In effect, I believe that these are two halves of a common whole, because there is one word that applies to both “citizens” and “consumers”.  They're called “people”.  And what we're fundamentally talking about is the rights of people to be secure when it comes to their personal information in the 21st Century.    
And we need to recognize as an industry, I believe, that the tools that we are creating are wonderfully beneficial in so many ways.  But as we've all come to appreciate, they collect and share an enormous amount of information.  From time to time we read in the press that a court has issued an order in a criminal case requiring someone to wear an ankle bracelet.  What does an ankle bracelet show?  It just shows where somebody is located.    
Without any court order, millions of Americans every day carry in their pocket or their purse a device that shows their location every moment of the day.  It records what people write.  It records what people read.  These are fundamentally beneficial instruments of technology, and yet if we don't think about the broader implications of what we are creating, we will put people's fundamental privacy needs at risk. 
Of course, there are people who ask, does any of this matter?  We have new technology.  Maybe a new generation really doesn't care about privacy anymore; they just care about using the technology.  I think it's worth reflecting first on the fact that it is technology that fundamentally unleashed the whole privacy debate in the first place.  It was Louis Brandeis, before he went on the Supreme Court, when he was at Harvard Law School and coined the phrase “the right to be let alone.”  It was in a Law Review article.    And what I think it's worth reminding ourselves that that phrase appears at the end of a paragraph in that Law Review story, but the first sentence in that paragraph talks not about the law, but about technology.  It was the camera, another invention that everybody loved that suddenly exposed people when they stepped out on their front door to being photographed, perhaps with someone with whom they really didn't want to be seen.  And it was this that started this debate.  Of course, in this day and age people say “that was then; this is now.  People don't care anymore. Just look at Facebook,” they say.  “Privacy must not matter, look at Facebook.”    
I remember the day in 2007 when we at Microsoft made an investment in Facebook.  When we made that investment, Facebook had 25 million users.  The most interesting thing about Facebook at that point was that it was not the market leader.  The market leader was MySpace.  MySpace had over 100 million users.  If you look at the history of technology and ask yourself how often does a company that is well behind the market leader when the market leader hits 100 million users, how often does that company come from behind and assume the leadership position? The answer is very rarely.   
And yet as we all know, look what happened in the years after.  MySpace stagnated.  Facebook took off.  Why did this happen?     Well interestingly part of the reason is captured in a book by David Kirkpatrick, a technology writer who points out that by default when you shared information on MySpace, it was accessible to the entire world.   But, by default when you shared information on Facebook, it was only accessible to your friends and people in a particular network.  So as he points out, there was a degree of privacy built into Facebook that wasn't present in MySpace.  Perhaps people do care about privacy.  But, perhaps they've redefined the term.    That is what I believe has happened, because what we're seeing today is that consumers want to share their personal information.          
But, there's two big buts.            
They actually want to decide who they share that information with …                     And they want to determine how this information will be used.    
If you ask people, not just here in the United States, but around the world, whether they actually recognize this phenomenon, one thing I have found that is universal is any parent who has or has had teenage children in the last ten years knows what this is talking about.  
I personally negotiated the first industry privacy agreement with the Federal Trade Commission in 2002.  That negotiation was easy compared to the negotiation I had when our daughter was 15 and I requested that she friend me on Facebook.  Even kids who want to share a lot don't necessarily want to share everything with their parents.  And of course, any of us who can remember what it was like to be a teenager probably needs to acknowledge that this was true in the past, as well; it's just the technology that has changed. 
Interestingly, I think Sonya Sotomayor captured this remarkably well in a short concurring opinion in 2012 in a case called U.S. v. Jones that came out of San Diego.  Historically, she pointed out that in the United States fundamentally when people talked about keeping information private, what they meant was keeping it secret.  People no longer care about keeping information secret to the same degree, but that doesn't mean that they care less about being able to manage who accesses their information and how they use it.  That's the new definition of privacy.  And in fact, this is continuing to evolve with new technologies as they come forward.  If you consider not just Facebook, but Snapchat, you see it yet again.  Here is a technology that fundamentally has been driven by middle schoolers.  It's young teenagers.    
And it was interesting when the CEO, the 23-year-old CEO of Snapchat, Evan Spiegel spoke about this in Los Angeles earlier this year.  He took that phrase personal computing and he talked about Snapchat as more personal computing.  What he fundamentally talked about was what he called the notion of content being “ephemeral”.  The thing that is fascinating to those of us who were part of the Microsoft case with the Justice Department over antitrust issues in the late '90s was when people started taking e-mail, we noted the fact that it was often quoted out of context.  People didn't have the context that they had if you were talking to somebody at the proverbial water cooler.    
And yet what Evan Spiegel pointed out was that the beauty of Snapchat, because you see a photo and then it is designed to disappear, was that it had this ephemeral nature and as he said, “it's a conservative idea, the natural response to radical transparency.”  He said that it would mirror the expectations we have when we're talking in person, that it would restore integrity and context to conversation.  What I think is most interesting about this is that he never once used the word privacy.  His generation doesn't necessarily use the word.  But they talked about the concept of controlling how their information and their content is shared.    And ultimately you can think about this not only from the perspective of Facebook, and Snapchat, and our industry.  You can think about it from the perspective of another group of people whose business is to respond to the concerns of the public:  elected officials.  
Look at the wave of legislation across the United States and look at where it always starts, the states, and look at the state where it starts first oftentimes.  That's California.  Last year, there were 33 privacy bills introduced in California.  We are seeing state after state take up this issue.      
And of course we're seeing it not just in the United States, we're seeing it around the world.          
Look at this graph and how the number of countries that have privacy laws continues to grow.      
Fundamentally, this is an issue that will continue to become more important.  Because right now, if you look at the world, there are one billion personal computers.  There are two billion smart phones.  There are seven billion people.  And by the end of this decade, there will be 50 billion devices in the Internet of Things connected to data centers around the world.    We will enter a world where every thermostat, smoke detector, fire extinguisher, parking meter, traffic light, garbage can, and you name it is a connected device.  This issue is going to become more important, not less.    
Ultimately, I think what we need to consider is how the two halves of this issue may come together.  I believe the questions are the same, but the answers may differ.  But if we think about the relationship between citizens and the government and consumers and companies, there are four things that we will need to grapple with:  
First, how do we ensure transparency?  How do we ensure that people have a right to know in an appropriate way what governments and companies are doing?
    Second, how do we ensure the public has appropriate control over personal information?  Of course individual citizens don't have the right to determine whether they're investigated by the government, but the public as a whole absolutely in any democratic society should have the right to control what the government does through the rule of law.  Similarly, I believe that consumers should have the right to determine how their information is used by companies through appropriate notice and consent and management of the use of information.    
Third, how do we ensure accountability?  In the government context, the executive branch needs to be accountable to the courts.  That's why the issue of FISA court reform remains so important.  When it comes to companies, I believe that companies do need to be accountable to regulators through regulation.  It needs to be well-designed regulation, it needs to be thoughtful, it needs to be balanced, but we cannot live in the wild west when we're talking about information that is this important to people. 
   Finally, how do we ensure international norms and collaboration, so information can cross borders when it should?  These are the four questions that we will need to grapple with in capital after capital around the world.    
In closing, I would say this:  Technology is a tool.  It is a tool that at its best empowers people.  It is a tool that needs to serve people.  Equally, governments exist to serve people.      We need to come together.  We need to ensure that important issues of public safety are addressed, but we need to do so in a way that ensures as well that technology in the 21st century continues to serve people.    
That's what this conversation is all about.  Thank you very much.      
  So, Brad, thank you for, particularly, I think sketching out the world that devices and data are leading us to.  And the explosion that we're seeing in a collection of data and management -- a hockey stick in just the beginning of the curve in terms of the volume of data that's being collected.    
So let me pick up with your four questions and some of the points that you see in common between the private sector side and government.  I thought your four questions maybe were going to start with why is this day different from all others?  I guess that's why we have you here.    
So you talked about control.  You talked transparency.  You talked about accountability.  You talked about international collaboration.  Certainly, to me, those sound very familiar from the 2012 White House Consumer Privacy Bill of Rights.    What do you see as the shape of regulations?  The Podesta Report reaffirms those principles  -- the administration should send something up to Congress.  What should that look like?    
  Well, first of all, I think and hope that the Administration will send something to Congress.  I mean, we went on the record – I gave a speech in 2005 endorsing national privacy legislation in this country.  I think it's long overdue at this point.    
It is unusual for Americans to look across the Atlantic and at least publicly find anything they like in Europe.  But the Europeans have been at this basically since the '80s.  And there are certain principles that have become global, I believe.  And they're not only reflected in European law, some of these are reflected in the sort of fair information practices that have been accepted by industry and others.    I do believe that people have a right to know how their information is being used.  So I think that having transparency obligations that apply in different settings makes sense.    
I actually think this is an area where we as an industry need to work harder.  Certainly, we as a company need to take more steps than we've taken so far.  We're focused on that.    I believe that the whole system of sort of notifying people and asking for their consent before information is shared and used is under stress.  Just because, frankly, people are asked so often during a month to sort of click on something, and so everybody clicks on it without reading it.  But I don't think that means we should throw that principle overboard.  We need to think about how the public has the right to know and consent to the use of its data and make that work in the 21st Century.    
I think that there are broad practices that amount to good information practices about how companies should use data, how they shouldn't use data, and how they should be accountable if they lose data or if there's a data breach.  I think that should be addressed as well.    I mean, we do have some important building blocks in the United States. Under HIPAA we have healthcare data.  Under Graham Leach Bliley, we've got banking data.  It's just in the United States at the national or federal level, this has grown up in silos and it's time to take the parts of the silos that work and generalize it.      So you talked about international collaboration, and mentioned Europe.  If you recall, part of the genesis of asking you to come here was that a few months ago Microsoft went to European privacy regulators and got approval of some of its standard contract clauses.  You've spent a lot of time in Europe dealing with some of the fallout of the Snowden affair and trying to rebuild trust.    
So talk a little bit about how we do that in Europe.  How companies can build that trust, and more especially, how do we build bridges?  How do we deal with some of the differences that exist and allow for those, but still be able to move data around the world in ways that in this global economy we need to?   
  It's a great question.  And I think anytime you want to build a bridge, at least politically or metaphorically, you have to start by understanding how people think on the other side of the canyon.  It doesn't mean you have to agree with them, but if you can't understand what they're thinking about, you're never going to build a bridge.    And I think what that means for people in Washington is, first, really understanding the different cultural norms that people are considering in some other countries around the world.    
The single place where this privacy issue is probably the hottest, at least in June, is Berlin.  And you can't go to Berlin and talk about data privacy without quickly appreciating that this is, perhaps, the only country in the world where there are people who are alive today who experienced the abuse of data, first by the Nazis and then by the Stasi.  And of course, if you lived under those kinds of regimes and you saw how a government used information, not necessarily to protect the public, but the regime itself, you come to appreciate where they're coming from.    And it's a different path than what we experienced.  And one of the things that we have to also appreciate in every country, most of the time, people are willing to have a level of confidence in their own government that they don't extend to other governments.    
So even when we believe that our government is acting not only to protect the safety of Americans, but say, the safety of Europeans, the Europeans say, "Well, you know, we elect our own government, we'll look to our government to protect us.  We're not willing to give another government that same level of confidence."  And we're not going to do that for any other government either.    
So I think it starts by understanding, frankly, that this is an issue that is thought about differently.  We should not, in my view, attempt to apply the same law in every place.  We shouldn't take European law and just copy it for the United States, and we shouldn't expect to take U.S. law and copy it in Europe or anywhere else.    
But we are going to need to build some bridges using some principles that are, perhaps, more global.    
  So in this global economy, you talked about having data in a data center in Ireland and about the case that Microsoft has where you're resisting extraterritorial application of U.S. access to records.    
Different companies have taken different positions in terms of what matters.  Is it where the data center is?  Is it where the citizen is?  If I understand correctly, your position -- the data is located in Ireland.  So that's the key fact in limiting U.S. access.  Is that right?    
  I believe that under current U.S. laws, as it was written by ECPA, in that case, yes.  And I think more fundamentally, yes, the law applies where the data resides.    And I actually think that that is, in general, a good principle.  It doesn't mean that there might not be some exceptions, and it's probably worth talking about them, but you might ask:  Why is that a good principle?    
Well, the reason it's a good principle is it gives us the ability to look at different countries around the world and if we want to protect data and people from what might be a human rights abuse, we can do that by keeping the data out of that country.  We don't put a data center in that country.    
But the moment a different principle applies, if it's applied without exception, without any limiting principles at all, you give whatever government you want to pick -- you know, if ISIS takes over a country, are we comfortable saying that they should have access to the data of an Iraqi citizen who lives in the United States because they can?  Or are we going to say that they only get to reach data in Iraq?  Or are we going to say that governments are going to have to work this out between themselves?    
I, at a minimum, think that this is a conversation that needs to happen.  And not just rely on a principle that governments should be able to go get whatever they can.   
 What about Dropbox? My European cousin shared some photographs on Dropbox.  And suppose shares them only in Europe.  Is that, as far as I know, Dropbox locates its data centers in the United States.  Would that be available in the United States?    
  Well, under existing law -- and I don't know anything about Dropbox, so I will take your premise.  You know, look, if the data is in the United States, it's subject to the reach of U.S. law.  I mean, everything that's in the United States is subject to the reach of U.S. law.  Everything in any country is subject to the reach of that country's law.  That's both a legal statement and it's a practical statement.  And I think that's a principle that people can probably figure out how to live with.    
And then as I said, you build data centers in countries, going in, knowing that the data in that data center is going to be subject to the law of that country.    
  So, Brad, what do you say to cynics who look at the position Microsoft's in and it's easier for Microsoft to locate data centers in Europe or elsewhere.  And who look at things like that and -- or look at positions you've taken on regulation or vis-à-vis Europe and say, "Well, that's your competitive advantage."  You know, it's in the company's interest to do that in relation to other players in the marketplace who aren't at the same scale or don't have the same business plan.    
  Well, it's a fair question.  It's a good question.  And, you know, I think fundamentally you're asking:  “Hey, do you believe in what you believe because you believe in it, or do you believe in it because you think you're going to benefit from it?”   
Well, first of all, I think we believe in the things we believe because we really do believe in them.  That's first.  You know, we believe in personal computing.  That's what created us.  That's what we've supported.  That's what we've advanced.  You know, every product that we've created, it's always about trying to ensure that these are tools that empower people.    And, by the way, if we do a great job of empowering people, if we do a great job of creating technology that people will trust, yes, we'll hopefully grow.  We'll hopefully succeed.  And we'll hopefully succeed because we deserve to succeed.    
I will hasten to add that, ultimately, I think on many of these issues, this is not going to be something where one company benefits and another company doesn't.  I think that technology will rise or fall together.  I think that the American IT sector will rise or fall together.    
And I would also say I would be the first to say that we at Microsoft have a lot of work to do.  I mean, we had a lot of work to do last December when we said we were going to expand encryption, you know, we got to work to do it.  I think we have a lot of work to do to expand transparency for consumers and we're focused on it.    To me, this is ultimately about choosing the principles that we believe in in terms of reconciling the values that are at stake, and then getting good at it, but not the other way around.  Not choosing principles that serve what we happen to be good at today.    
  It does seem to me that, from witnessing some of the things that a number of tech companies did together in response to Snowden, that everybody's a little bit in the same boat here.    
  Yeah.  I mean, I think certainly on the government surveillance issues, our industry is almost entirely united.  Yes.    
  So you mentioned encryption.  And I want to ask one specific question, and then turn to the audience.  You know, you've taken steps to strengthen encryption.  You've also indicated that there are some challenges in doing that, some maybe created by the U.S. Government.  What do we do to strengthen encryption and to strengthen trust in encryption?  
    Well, the most important thing to do is use stronger encryption and use it across the board.  And by "across the board" it really means two things.  You use it on all of your services that have content, and you use it for both data that is, quote, “at rest,” meaning it's a file that's stored on a server in a data center, or you use it for data that's “in transit,” meaning that data's being transmitted, say, from one data center to another over a cable or from a data center to a consumer and then it gets decrypted on the user's device.    It's actually expensive.  You know, it has required that the industry redeploy resources.  It has required that engineers be moved off of projects to go pursue this.  It has required that certain aspects of data centers be re-architected.  The fact that the entire industry has stepped up to make this investment basically simultaneously I think is a reflection that we are in a business that relies on people's trust.  I mean, we really are.    
Look, let's just step back for a moment.  It doesn't matter what personal information you have, you know, we're offering a world where you should feel comfortable storing that in the cloud.   Of course there is no physical thing that is a real cloud in which this is stored.  What it's really being stored in is a data center.  You don't even know where the data center is located.  But you need to have confidence that this information is still yours, and therefore, trust is a prerequisite, and encryption is a fundamental part of ensuring people's trust.    
  Your comment about cloud computing not being a physical thing just brings to mind, meeting with an official who is leading part of the European review of the data protection regulation and being asked:  What is this cloud computing?    
So let's turn to the audience.  Do we have some questions?  Yes, ma'am, in the front.  Did you have your hand up?  Okay, so we've got a microphone coming to you over here.    
  Hi, I'm Julia Tecona.  I'm a doctoral student at the Institute for Advanced Studies in culture out of the University of Virginia.  My research is on technology and privacy concerns from a sociological perspective.    I couldn't help but notice how much trust came up in your talk today and in your comments.  And I think it's an extremely important aspect of this.  But it's also a very complex social and emotional response to these technical issues.    So I'm wondering, we know from sociological research, a lot of which came out of Microsoft's great Social Media Collaborative, that people's trust in these technologies often doesn't come from a sophisticated technical understanding about the processes in which their data is stored and all these different procedures and those privacy notices right, but more of a sort of generalized social trust in the company or in other users even.    
I'm wondering, based on that, what do you see is Microsoft's responsibility to making these processes more understandable and also educating the users about what it is that they're signing up for?    
  I think it's a really important point.  And I think there are a couple of dimensions that are worth thinking about it.    
First, on sort of a company-by-company basis, I do think we have a need to make things simpler.  Software companies are not necessarily great, it's not intuitive, necessarily, about how to make something as simple as it might need to be, especially for a consuming public on a national or global basis.    
So we do need to make things simpler.  We need to ensure they're clear, that they're understandable, and that if people do stop and think about these things, that they would resonate with the balance that is being struck, that they would agree that the right balance or reasonable balance is being struck.    
But I also think that there's a broader dimension of what you're referring to.  People really react based on their own individual or broader community or national experience.  And you see with a lot of technologies that people have trust until something goes wrong.  And then, all of a sudden, things change.    
One of the examples that I've always thought is really important for people in the IT sector to think about is the history of the nuclear power industry in the United States and what happened after Three Mile Island.  Basically, in the run-up to Three Mile Island, there was not a broad public discussion about nuclear power the way there was in some other countries.  People were very comfortable with it, but so comfortable with it that there wasn't as much debate in Congress about it.    And then when Three Mile Island happened, the industry died in a day.  There has not been a nuclear power plant that's been added since that day.  And then you look at other countries where there's been a future for nuclear power.    
So for me, the lesson is it's actually important to have the conversations with governments, with the public that people in industry might otherwise want to avoid because it's a difficult topic.  But if you can talk about it and build a real consensus, then if something goes wrong, if there's a data breach at a major retailer or something else even worse happens, you have a foundation on which to try to sustain trust through that.  Hence, this kind of conversation is quite important.    
  Let me take the prerogative to ask a follow-up question.    
  Sure.    
  It strikes me that the way privacy operates today, an awful lot of transparency relies on that sort of notice and consent framework and whatever is said in the privacy policies up front.  But what's really needed is for people to have a better understanding of what data is collected about them and what picture that data presents.  What are the inferences that people can draw from the data?  So how do we get there?  How do we do that?  What's Microsoft doing to provide, to educate people?   
  I think, fundamentally, what all the companies in our industry are going to need to do is build, over time, what you might think of as a dashboard that you can go to so you can see the data about you.  And you get to see what's there.  You have the opportunity to look, if some of it's wrong, you have the ability to correct it.    
You get to see how it's used.  And there is some way, technologically, for people to be able to have a level of control in an appropriate way over how their information is used.  I think that that's where we going to need to go as an industry and I think that's where, if you just look at the tide of law and regulation on a global basis and step back from a specific month or year or an individual country, that's sort of where things are pushing.    
And I think that, on balance, has huge amounts of nuances and technical complexity and all kinds of difficulty – and engineers will tear their hair out over this thought – but it's, ultimately, where we'll need to go in some generalized sense.    
  I saw a question at the back of the room there.    
  That was a great speech, thanks for the real tour de force on privacy law.  My question is about your comment on regulation and the need for it.  In Europe, privacy is considered a fundamental right, but it's subject to a balancing against 51 or 52 other fundamental rights, and it's also subject to the principle of proportionality.  In the United States, regulation is typically subject to either formal or informal cost-benefit analysis.    
But with privacy, like other kind of metaphysical issues, philosophical issues, it's very hard to do a cost-benefit analysis because the benefits are not really tangible.  But, nonetheless, if you're going to regulate something, it is going to impose costs, it is going to limit other abuses and economic and other uses.    How do we go about really quantifying or at least characterizing the harms that are related to privacy, either privacy violations, privacy injuries, whatnot, so there can be a reasonable balance in regulation?    
  Well, I first think one needs to think about where you do that kind of analysis.  And I would point out that there are basically two places.  You can do it when you're designing a law or regulation itself and figuring out how you want to strike the balance, or you can do it as the regulation is applied to individual companies or data use.    You know, antitrust law is an area where you sort of apply this economic assessment of costs and benefits under a rule of reason to individualized company conduct.  It's actually difficult to apply that in technology in some instances because there's a lack of certainty about how the equation is going to net out.    So my own view is I think it is appropriate for a legislative body or regulatory agency like the FTC to go through the analysis when it is designing the rules, but to then just have clear rules that 
can be easily followed by companies without asking companies to ask their own lawyers to do a cost-benefit analysis in order to predict what the regulation is going to mean in the first place.    
Now, that sort of, then, takes you back to your question, well, how do you do that analysis in the first place?  I'm not going to say I have some magic answer.  You know, I will say that if you look at the areas where we have adopted law in the United States, whether it's around HIPAA or it's around Graham Leach Bliley, or even in other areas where we let people have access to information about themselves, consumer credit and the like, I do think that there are some balances that have been struck from which we can learn and analogize.  I do think there's some benefit that can come from building on that learning.    
  Yes, sir.    
  John Piha, Carnegie Mellon University.  I understand the safety deposit box analogy.  You know, if my papers are in Ireland, I know exactly what that means.  When you say e-mail records are in Ireland, I'm not so sure what that means.  Those e-mail records are almost certainly duplicated in multiple places at any given time.  They can be moved or copied for performance reasons or to evade law enforcement very quickly and no one will noticed, they can be accessed anywhere in the world.    If you're going to embed sort of legal access rules based on the location of information, how do we define what location of information means?  Can it be done in a way that gives you the protection that you've made a very good case that we need, without making it trivial to evade law enforcement everywhere?    
  Well, I think you raise a really important question.  While I would say it's actually not that difficult to know where data is, I don't think that that actually will answer the fundamental question that you're asking.    We actually can determine where data exists.  We can even determine not just the data center, but ultimately, we can determine what server it's on, and you can walk down a row of servers the way you can walk down a row of safety deposit boxes.    But I think that there's two questions that are really critical that come out of what you're pointing to.  Number one, why is data in one place versus another?  You know, look, if there's a common practice of moving data around just to evade laws, that's a problem.  I'd be the first to acknowledge that.  We don't put data in Ireland because we're trying to evade anybody's law.  We put data in Ireland to be close to the customer.    Anybody who's ever accessed a website or let's just say you're trying to download a file that you've stored, maybe it's photos, maybe it's a paper – it is still the case that the longer the distance the file has to travel, the longer it is likely to take for the file to get to you.  That's what we refer to as "latency" in the industry.    And it may not be a long difference in historical periods of time, but let's be honest, when you're using one of these devices, whatever you want, you want it now.  So what we do is we put European data in Europe because it's close to the customer.  You know, we're going to put Brazilian data in Brazil because it's close to Brazilians.  There are 200 million people in that country who want to have fast access to their data.    And, by the way, these are huge capital expenses – hundreds of millions of dollars now to really build out a large data center.  So it is not the kind of decision that a company is going to make without really being thoughtful.    
Now, I still think that there's another aspect to the question that you raise, which I do understand, and I do think this is a direction in which the debate could potentially head.    
Let's think about a data center in Ireland.  Well, let's think about that belonging to an Irish citizen.  Should the U.S. Government have access to the data of an Irish citizen in Ireland without going through the Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty with the Government of Ireland?  I think it probably should not.  That's what we're arguing.    Pick any government you want -- do you want any government to have access to American data in the United States, the data of an American citizen, without going through U.S. legal process?  I virtually guarantee Americans will say, "No, we don't want that."    Now, a different hypothesis.  Imagine it's an American citizen who somehow managed to get the data into Ireland.  Now, we wouldn't do that under our business norms, but let's imagine that that's the case.  Could you get European governments comfortable with an international framework that would say that if Congress wanted to amend ECPA so that a warrant would reach the data of American citizens or an American resident even if the data is in another country, I think you might have the basis to do something there.    
I mean, ultimately, I am not here to argue that law enforcement should be stopped from doing its job in an effective way.  I want law enforcement to do its job in an effective way, but pursuant to the rule of law and fundamental principles that we and other societies can look at and say, "Yes, these make sense, and we want them to be applied on a reciprocal basis."  And I would hasten to add that if we can't get to this world, then law enforcement is going to have a bleak future anyway.  Because if we, for example, cannot get the German Government comfortable, they will go forward with a procurement regulation they've already proposed.  Their proposal would say that, basically, you cannot put German public-sector data into the data center of an American company.    Well, if the data is not in an American company in the first place, U.S. law enforcement isn't going to be able to reach it.  So I would argue that the long-term interest of public safety and U.S. law enforcement are only served through an approach that builds a genuine international understanding with which people are comfortable.    
  So let me jump in with a follow-up there because I agree with much of what you said.  But isn't there a tension between saying that jurisdiction should lie where the data resides and the position of many governments that the Internet should be subject to national jurisdiction and national boundaries.  And if we're going to say that where the data is, the national boundaries, define that, does that reinforce sort of that approach to the Internet?    
  In what sense?  That you actually do create more national boundaries?   
  Yeah.  That governments define their jurisdiction over the Internet by their national boundaries.  And if it is within their national boundaries, they control it.    
  Well, I guess the first thing I would say is, look, that's the world as it exists today.  I mean, the notion that people can't -- look, I met some people on the West Coast who would say that, no, we created a cyber-world that isn't subject to the laws of any country.  I don't recognize that world.  It actually doesn't exist.  There is no cloud.  These are physical facilities.  They are data centers, and they absolutely are subject to the laws in which that data center is located.  I'm not advocating that as something that should be, I'm just saying that is the reality.  I'm a lawyer.  That's the law.    
Now, let's talk about the world we want to create.  If we want to talk about the world that we want to create, I think it requires a combination of national laws and international agreements.  And the best way to discourage protectionist forces is actually to have some international norms so that governments know when they have access to data in another country and under what terms, and it's subject to a consensus that people – the public in these countries – are comfortable with.    And the more you build these international norms, the better able one will be when it comes to addressing protectionist pressure or other things that would place more national restrictions in place.    
  Other questions?  Yes, sir, in the blue shirt back there.    
  John Hanchick, I'm with Georgetown, among other things.  I'm from the West Coast.  So this idea --   
  So am I, by the way.    
  Yeah.  The cyber sphere and all that, we can argue whether or not it's coming, but there seems to be an issue that we need to address here directly, which is privacy.  What does it mean?  There's been a decoupling, like you said, of secrecy from privacy.  And yet, there's a terrible imbalance.  Individuals have no secrets, but the government and companies have many secrets.  We have no way of rebalancing that.    It seems a losing battle to try and protect privacy as we have known it.  It's not working.  We are skirting around all these issues of hiding the data, moving around, and it's not like a safety deposit box.  It's accessible.    So it seems almost that we need to move towards something different, something radically transparent.  If everyone's watching everyone, then we have something where everyone's accountable.  This is a frightening world.  We've never quite had this, maybe in the village days we had this, but we've never quite had this before in this way on a global scale.  But this is something that I think a lot of people have been talking about is how do we rebalance secrets?    
The FISA court may be working well, like you said, but we don't know anything about it.  We're not involved at all.  So people, they become afraid and they don't trust what they don't know.  
We're all in glass houses, but somewhere above us is a giant steel box with telescopes.  You know, this is not sustainable.  We won't trust.  We don't trust the companies because the companies still have secrets.    So it seems we need to start getting individuals more involved because there's people around the earth looking at how to do this.  You know the West Coasters.  They're going to build these tools.  And the nefarious people already have these tools and they use them.  They use TOR and they use Bitcoin -- even though Bitcoin is flawed.    But these technologies exist.  And you can use them.  So I guess the question becomes:  How do we make sure that government is still involved in a world where many people want to leave it behind?     
  Well, the only thing I would say, and I know we're almost out of time, so we have time, perhaps, for one more question.    
  Yes.    
  The one thing I would say is, look, in many ways it's new.  In many ways, it's not.  You know, communications technology has been advancing literally for two centuries.  And I think the fundamental question we all have to ask ourselves, the fundamental question I think you're raising, is what enduring values do we want to continue to enhance?  Technology can threaten certain values, it can advance other values, but ultimately, it is the role of a free society and its government to decide what enduring values it wants to invest in.  And I think that is something that is more necessary because of technology, even if technology might threaten it.  And getting more people involved, as you point out, is part of the answer.    
  So we have time for one more question.  Please, make it short.  Ma'am?    
  Thank you.  My name is Natalie Marishow, I'm a doctoral student at the University of Southern California.  My question is about private-sector companies, both in the tech sphere and telecommunication industries and other Internet providers that, unlike what you're describing about Microsoft and the rest of the U.S. tech sector, don't see themselves as having a role to play in the protection of these citizen-consumer people who have privacy and civil and human rights.    How can the advocacy and nonprofit sector help these companies who don't see things the way that you do to understand their role and be more responsive to consumer demands and expectations?    
  A great question, and it's certainly, I think, a good question on which to end.   
I would say two things.  First, it's why there is a vibrant discussion today and why there needs to be an even more vibrant discussion in the future that brings together people from government, people from academia, and the NGO community and civil society, and people from the industries and companies that are creating and deploying these technologies.  I don't think one can have a true lasting approach without bringing all of these groups to the table and having this kind of conversation.  So I just think it's a prerequisite.   
And I do think, finally, it sort of takes us back to where we began.  We are having a national debate as a country.  I think, interestingly, there are aspects of this debate that are getting more attention outside the country than inside the country.  Certainly, you can't spend time in Berlin, or Beijing sometimes, without coming to that conclusion.    And I think it's important for us in the United States to have a broad perspective on how the world is thinking about this.  I think we need to continue down the path we've started, and we need to finish what we started when it comes to rules for government surveillance.  I don't think we've gone far enough, and we need to do more.    
Finally, we need to recognize that we do need, in my opinion, a broad-based legal and regulatory model when it comes to company use of personal information.    I'll just say this.  Imagine a bank that doesn't take good care of its customers' money.  Do you think it has a bright future?  What do you think of a tech company that doesn't take good care of its customers' information?    
I believe that over the long term, the world will expect and even insist that we pay as much attention to the personal information of consumers as banks do to their money.  And the sooner we get started on that and the faster we come together to have the kind of broad-based conversation that you're referring to, the more successful we're likely to be.  
    Well, Brad, thank you.  We are in the midst of what President Obama called a national conversation about privacy.  You've been an important part of that conversation with the president, in public, and here today.    It's an important conversation.  It's a critical issue to enable some of the benefits that you've talked about.  It's a conversation that, clearly, has a lot of layers to it that we had some very thoughtful questions here today.    
So I want to thank you for being here.  I want to thank all of you for joining this and for your questions.  This was a conversation that, clearly, could go on today.  It will have to continue in other forums, I'm sure, for a long time to come.  Thank you very much.    
  Thank you.      
 Please welcome Microsoft Corporate Vice President for Enterprise Client and Mobility Brad Anderson.
 Hey, good morning. Thanks for being here.
I’m excited to be here and be able to talk about what I think is one of the greatest opportunities ahead of all of us, and it really is about how we enable users to be productive in a mobile world.
So in this mobile-first, cloud-first world that we live in, we’re always connected, we’re always on. The pace of innovation and the pace of competition is faster than it’s ever been before. And we all know it’s only going to accelerate from here. Again, the reality is most of the organizations in the world, the speed of work is outpacing the technology that underlies it. 
Well, Microsoft has a plan to help. And our plan is also founded on how we enable organizations to enable their users to be more and to do more. It’s founded on principles such as enabling the ability to create content in a very quick and easy manner, in a way that’s discoverable and it’s easy to use.
Today the world is just too complex and the tools that our users have are just too complex. So what I hope to show you over the next 30 minutes is the work that we’ve been doing in Office 365, in the Enterprise Mobility Suite and in Dynamics CRM that are going to enable you to go to your customers and help them embrace these trends that are ultimately going to make their users more productive, more empowered and advance the business.
As I look around the room here, all of you are the trusted advisors for billions and millions of customers around the world. And we believe together this opportunity to help them embrace these mobility trends, embrace these trends to make their users more productive is one of the most important things that we need to do together.
Now these trends are literally changing everything in how we work. They are certainly changing how we work. If you look at the individuals who are entering into the workforce right now, these individuals have been born and raised with these cell phones in their hands. They’re accustomed to always being on. They’re always networking. They’re accustomed to personalized information being surfaced up to them in an easy-to-use way and a way that’s easy to act upon.
But, again, the organizations around the world just don’t really work like that today. And, in fact, for the average information worker, they spend 20 percent of their time looking for information, searching for information. That’s one day in five. So how do we help these organizations get better at that? How do we help organizations to work like a network where information flows quickly, and it’s easily accessible and easily useable?
These trends change what we use to do our work. Our users are bringing in their personal devices. On these personal devices, they have the apps that they use in their personal, digital lives. And they’re accustomed to the freedom and to the capabilities that this brings to them. They want to use those same applications at work, and they want to have the same flexibility that they have in their personal digital lives in their work life.
And finally where we work is changing. Now many of you may not think about the physical workspace as a tool, but it really is. Users are looking for a physical workspace that enables collaboration, that enables open idea sharing. And at Microsoft we’re certainly embracing this, as you can see in this picture. This is actually a picture of our office in Zurich. And it’s built to really enable the open collaboration that today’s users want.
But with this flexibility of enabling users to work where, when and how they want comes increased risk. Consumer Reports estimates that just in the United States, just in the United States, during 2013, there were 3.1 million smartphones stolen, and another 1.4 million lost. Now we know that on many of these smartphones there’s an incredible amount of sensitive and confidential customer and corporate content on it.
So this is a really fine balance we have to walk. It’s this balance between enabling users to be productive on the devices that they love, on all the devices that they love, while delivering the appropriate level of security and protection for the corporate content that resides on these devices.
And I believe that doing this right requires it to be built into the architecture and the design of the product that we’re building. And we’re certainly doing that at Microsoft. At Microsoft we really have embraced the design principles of focusing on the end user first and foremost and delivering to them the absolute best experience to be productive. And that’s what we certainly have done in Office 365, in the Enterprise Mobility Suite and Dynamics CRM. But, focusing on the end user first, but at the same time delivering IT the appropriate level of security and protection and compliance that they need.
Now we know that security is a top-level conversation in every company in the world right now, and it certainly is a conversation that’s happening in the CEO office, and all the boardrooms around the world. Just take a look at the news and you can see just how prevalent this is and we’ve seen so many examples where what appears to be an IT miss has resulted in embarrassment, in brand damage and in some cases CEOs losing their jobs.
So together let’s work and let’s take innovations that we’re delivering in this hybrid world, from the cloud, but also connect it down to our on-premises capabilities, to really enable users to be productive on the devices that they love, while keeping the data secure. So what we’re going to do now for the next couple of minutes is we want to take a look at it first from the perspective of the end user and what it means to be productive in a mobile world, and then come back and talk about what it means from the IT perspective and the tools that we’re delivering for IT to use.
Let’s start with the end user and please give a warm welcome to Julia to give us a view of that.
 Thanks, Brad. 
Now Brad talked about how productivity is moving to this hyper-collaborative and open work style, working like a network. But, also how essential it is to be productive and secure on all the devices you’re working on. Now I’m going to show you an example of how all this comes together using Microsoft’s cloud services across Office 365, CRM Online and the services in the Enterprise Mobility Suite.
Now for the purposes of today’s demo I’m a salesperson and I’m working to close an important deal, of course. Now as a salesperson I will start my day in my CRM Online experience, where I can manage all of my customer information in a really easy-to-use way. And it’s a great touch experience here on Windows. And I’m showing this on Windows today, but we also have great CRM experiences on iOS and on Android. And with the touch of my hand I can see all the deal’s status, I even have BI on my pipeline. So I know exactly what’s going on.
Now the deal I’m most interesting in working on today is this annual hardware refresh. So I’m going to go ahead and select in there and CRM brings to me all the important information I need. I have my customer contact information integrated with Lync and Skype, of course. And I have all of my steps to get through my deal. And CRM walks me through those steps so I cannot worry about the process, I can focus on my customer.
Now in this case I need to identify stakeholders, which I have done. So I’ll mark that complete. And the competitors as complete. So I’ll go to my next phase. And here in the propose phase you see it’s actually highlighting for me that I have this gold discount for this customer. They qualify for 15 percent off. So I can make sure I include that in the proposal. Again, CRM bringing me important information, not just sales process steps.
Well, the next thing I have to do here, it says, is to develop a proposal for my customer. Well, it turns out a couple of weeks ago I was in a meeting and a co-worker shared this awesome customer presentation proposal that I want to use, but I’m not exactly sure where it is. Now normally today what I have to do is maybe email my co-worker, ask for that proposal, maybe search around for it, but no more. I don’t have to do that today.
Today I have Delve, a new experience in Office 365. And what’s powering Delve is machine learning that works across Office 365, that knows the content I’m working on, knows the meetings I’m attending and the people I’m collaborating with. And based on all that insight is providing me this totally personalized, relevance-based view of all my information. And I can see everything right here, again, in a great touch experience.
Now in this case I know I’m looking for something that was presented to me in a meeting. So I can use Delve to refine my view through some default views we have already. So in this case I’m going to choose “present it to me.” And again, in a single touch I now have a new view of all the information that’s been presented to me, again, that machine learning knows the meetings I’m in and the content that was shared as part of that meeting.
Now this content could fit anywhere across the organization, in OneDrive accounts, or in my file share. It doesn’t matter. It’s presented to me right here. Now and again, I was looking for that proposal and here it is, right there, that proposal I was looking for, thanks to Delve the information found me versus me having to find that information. So now I can grab that proposal and put it right in my OneDrive for Business account, so I can collaborate and work on it with my teammates. So that’s what I’ve done here. Now I’m in my OneDrive for Business experience, just part of Office 365, fully integrated, with one terabyte of data per user. So I can put all of my files in here.
Now I’ve customized this proposal for Litware, my customer I’m working with. And you see I’ve shared out with a number of co-workers, as well, so we can all edit it. So let me go ahead and open that and we can start editing it and getting it just right for the customer. I’ll go ahead and edit here in Word Online. And as I go in you can see there’s going to be a few other people here editing this with me. And as I go down you can actually see pixel-by-pixel what my co-workers are changing and the edits they’re making real-time. And we have collaboration and coauthoring in all of our Office apps, as well.
Now I want to make some changes, just like my colleagues, as well. And in this case I want to put in a table. And now that is easier to do than ever. So I go up to this Tell Me feature, a new feature in Office, and I just tell it what I want to do, like insert a table in this case. It actually takes me to the commands. It doesn’t take me to help and how to, it actually takes me to the command. So it doesn’t matter where it is in the ribbon. I don’t have to look for it. I can just drop it in and go.
Now in this proposal, remember, I have that special pricing with that discount in it. So I want to go ahead and send this to my customer so they can take a look at the proposal, but because it has that sensitive pricing information I want to use some additional security. So what I’m going to do is go ahead and add Azure Rights Management Services to have another layer of security in what I’m doing. So all I have to do is hit this “share protected,” and I get this Azure Rights Management Services prompt, and I can type in who I want to send it to. In this case I want to send it to my customer at Litware. And in this UI here I can choose what kind of settings they have, what rights they have, customize it, get exactly what I want and then go ahead and send. Now when it creates that email for me to send, what happens is both the encryption and the access rights stay with the file, so I know only that customer can open that email and see that file. I don’t have to worry about the sensitive pricing information being shared with other customers that I don’t want to see it, giving me that important peace of mind.
All right. Now that I’ve got the proposal off to my customer and they get to take a look at it, I actually posted some questions out to my Yammer group that I wanted to get some best practices on getting ready to meet with this customer, which is my next step. So to do that I’m going to go out to Yammer and our enterprise social experience where we can have this open and discoverable conversation. And I’m going to my sales team group where people who are interested in sales, the sales deals we’re working on, can join in this group and have an open, discoverable conversation. And here I’ve posted a question and gotten some answers.
And the magical thing about this is that it’s open so I know that when I post a question out here looking for some best practices, anyone across the company who might have relevant information can find this conversation and add to it. And that’s really essential. And we think it’s so important to how people are going to work today and in the future that we’re taking this group’s experience of open, discoverable conversation and we’re extending it across all parts of Office 365.
So let me show you what that looks like. I’m going to go ahead to my Outlook experience here, my email, as you’d expect, looks great, but I have more than email now. I can go ahead and expand down here those groups, and there is that sales team group, that same open conversation I just showed you in Yammer, now here at my familiar Outlook experience. So I can have that open, discoverable discussion with whatever tool I want to use across Office 365. And you see I have that information here.
Now the other aspect of having open conversations is I can discover other groups, because they’re open. So for an example, I work with Jim here all the time. And if he’s in a group that’s interesting to him it’s probably interesting to me, as well. So I can just click on Jim and I can look at the groups he’s in, and this marketing team seems like a group I might want to be part of, but I’m not today.
So I can go ahead and just click on that marketing team and I can actually get a preview of the group and see what kind of conversations are happening.
In fact, this does look like an interesting group that I would want to be a part of. And so all I have to do is click join here, and I can automatically join to that discussion. Again, it’s a really powerful experience across an open, discoverable groups format.
So a proposal to the customer. I’ve got my questions answered, ready for going onsite to present to the customer. So to do that, I’m actually going to switch over to my iPad to do my presentation at the customer site.
You might have heard a few months ago we launched Office for iPad, fantastic Office experiences on this device. In this case, I’m in PowerPoint. And I can drop in, and you see that same familiar Office experience with the ribbon and the commands exactly where I’d expect them. That means that I can use these apps and be productive right away.
And in this example, too, I have one last edit I want to make before I do the customer presentation. So I’m going to go ahead and insert this picture here. And you see nice big touch handles. I can zoom down, up, drop that right in. Now I’m ready to go.
So let’s go and go ahead and get into presentation mode. And everything that I load up looks great, all of my transitions are there. My animations look perfect. It’s great. It’s that Office experience we know and love.
But we’ve done some additional things to make this even more impactful unique to this device, because we know people will use their iPads for presentations. For an example, I can just touch and hold, and I get that laser pointer so I can highlight what I’m talking about and draw attention in my presentation. Similarly, I can go grab ink as well. So I can annotate if I want to make sure people are watching and make a real, more important point in my presentation.
Just a couple of neat little tools we’ve put in to make it even more impactful when using this device with Office. And, again, the view you can see is just unmistakably Office, yet very natural and familiar on an iPad.
All right. So the presentation to the customer went great. They’re ready to sign. So now I want to send my sales team the information about the pricing so they can get to work on the contracting process. To do that, I’m actually going to switch to a different iPad, and I’m going to show you some technology coming in the future. And this is integration between Office 365 and the services in the Enterprise Mobility Suite. They provide mobile device management of the Office for iPad apps. Essentially this allows corporations to keep their data within IT-managed areas while giving the users the Office experience that they love.
Now on this iPad specifically IT has applied policies and controls on which apps I can use for business, and where that data can reside. So let me show you what that looks like. So I want to get that pricing information. So I’m going to go into my Outlook experience here on the iPad, where I have the attachment with the pricing in it. So I’ll go ahead and open that Excel file. Now it opens it first in the default viewer in the iPad. And so you can see my Excel looks kind of funky. But that’s OK, I can go ahead and open it.
Now when I select the apps to open it, only apps that are approved by IT show here. So I’m protected. I’m making sure that I’m only using the apps that I should be for work purposes. Luckily I can use Excel and get a view of what that should really look like, which is great. So here I have that table of information I want to send off to the team, again nice big touch handles. I can go ahead and copy that information.
Now I’m going to send it off, and I’m going to try to send this in the native email app that comes on the iPad, what I should be using for personal but not for work reasons. But I’m going to go ahead and try anyway. So I’ll go ahead and tap in here and try and paste this. But you see there’s no option to paste. That’s actually been disabled because of that IT management. I’m not allowed to put business information in this app. So instead I’ll go back to my Outlook experience, which of course I can use for work, and go ahead and send an email there and tap in. And when I touch and hold, you can see that there is my paste option, and it drops right in because it is an approved experience.
So this shows you how we’ll enable data protection and IT control while still providing that fantastic user experience with Office. 
Now I showed you just one example of a mobile salesperson being productive across the Microsoft Cloud Services. This is what productivity looks like in a cloud-first, mobile-first world. Thanks.
 Thanks, Julia.
You know, that experience that we’re delivering on all these mobile devices, whether it be on Windows, whether it be on Android, whether it be on iOS, all center on that beautiful unmistakably Office experience, and then extending that and being able to manage that through the different components of the Enterprise Mobility Suite really offers, bar none, the absolutely best solution on the market.
So you got a chance to see a view of it from the end-user perspective. Now I want to show you what it looks like from an IT perspective. But I want to start by just talking about the different layers of protection. And what we have really found important here, and a good way to think about this is, as you think about these mobile devices and the corporate content that’s begin accessed and used on the devices, you need to implement a layered protection approach.
So first and foremost, you want to start with the device itself. And you want to be able to put in policies like a power on path with the device encrypted. You want to be able to verify that the device has not been jailbroken. But you also want to make it super easy for users to bring their personal device in to work and automate the setup of things like the wireless network, the VPN as well as things like certificate management, you know, the classical mobile device management. That’s the first thing you want to do. And of course we deliver that, a complete solution in the Enterprise Mobility Suite.
You want to also protect at the application level. And like what Julia showed, you want to be able to separate the personal applications from the corporate applications as well as the content. So delivering a container, and delivering wrappers that allow you to invite other applications to participate in that same container that Office is, is a core foundational piece of the types of capabilities that are coming in the Enterprise Mobility Suite here in a couple of months.
Now here is where the vendors in the market today that claim to be enterprise mobility management vendors stop. But there’s much more you have to do. You also want to be able to protect at the file level. I thought Julia did a wonderful job of showing you that proposal that was being sent to a customer and she had the ability to embed the access rights in the file. So the file is self-protecting. The file is able to travel with those access rights embedded in it.
I’ll give you a personal anecdote on this. Here I think I may be a unique individual, but lo and behold there are other Brad Andersons in the world and other Brad Andersons in the industry. I can’t tell you the number of times when I have had files and emails sent to me accidentally that were destined for another Brad Anderson in the industry. Accidental data leakage is one of the biggest things that we struggle with in the industry, and if you can actually embed the access rights into the file itself, it doesn’t matter if an accident happens because the file can’t be opened unless you personally have been authorized to do it.
And then you need to wrap all of this with tight and complete identity management. If you think about Active Directory, it has been the foundational piece that every organization in the world has based its access to content and to applications on for years and years and years. We want to extend that to the cloud with the trends that are happening.
So now with that as an overview, let’s actually show you how some of this looks. So what we’re going to do now is we’re going to dive into a number of the components in the Enterprise Mobility Suite and show you IT’s view of this.
So what you’re looking at here is Microsoft Intune. And this is our mobile device, mobile application management solution. And the first thing that you’re seeing here is I have all these policies that I can set. I can set power on password policies. I can set policies specific to things like the NAS capabilities. I can set up the Wi-Fi and the network, manage their certificates. I have a complete solution to do everything that I need to do from a mobile device management perspective.
And so as you are looking for a really strong mobile device management solution that extends out to everything else you need to do, the Enterprise Mobility Suite is the thing that you need to base on.
Let’s move up a level and let’s talk about applications. So here I have an app restriction policy for iOS 7. What this allows me to do is set the policies that Julia was just showing you just a minute ago where it allows me to do things like manage this application and data from this application be backed up through iCloud, can I share it, can I do copy and paste. And that example where Julia showed where she was trying to cut and copy content from a corporate app or managed application into a personal application was blocked. That’s all managed through the Microsoft Intune solution. And that manageability in terms of the Office applications across Windows and iOS and Android is only possible through the Enterprise Mobility Suite from Microsoft.
Now what’s the first application that everybody in the industry wants to protect first, what’s the first app? That’s right, it’s email. And so what I want to show you here is some of the work that we’ve done from an email perspective about what we call conditional access. What this allows us to do is set up policy on the device, and if that policy is not met, then we actually stop the flow of email. So we can set a policy that requires the device to have a power on password. It requires to be encrypted in case that it’s lost. And it also requires the device not be jailbroken.
Now if we find at any time any one of these policies is challenged or is not compliant, we actually stop the flow of email, both to the inbox email application or to Outlook, and when the user comes in to email there’s one email in the inbox, and it says, hey, your device is out of compliance. Click here and we’ll walk you through bringing it back into compliance. So we walk the user through the process of bringing it back into compliance, but you can be assured that all the corporate secrets, the details, the confidential information that flows through email every day is safe and secure and protected.
So mobile device management, check, in the Enterprise Mobility Suite. Mobile application management, check, also in the Enterprise Mobility Suite.
But there’s one thing that every organization I talk to tells me about that they want and that they need help with. Every organization that I talk with tells me that they have an inventory of Windows applications that they also need to deliver down to their devices and to their users around the world. But depending on the number of applications and the number of devices that you have, this can be a pretty daunting task to stand up the infrastructure to do remote desktop or remote apps.
What we released in May in the preview what we call Azure Remote App. Azure Remote App is remote desktop services that we’ve rewritten that run now as a FAS service in Azure. And you can see here, I can take and I can publish any Windows application up into Azure. It can be replicated to any of the Azure datacenters that Scott talked about, and then I can give access to those applications to my end user on any device anywhere in the world.
Interesting data fact here, the non-Windows client, so the client that we released in October for Mac, iOS and Android have been downloaded now more than 5 million times from the various stores, which is wonderful feedback.
So what I’m going to do here is I’m going to go click on Visio. And when I click on Visio, what you’re going to see happening here is it is actually spinning up a session for me in the Azure datacenter. It’s going to give me a great single sign-on experience. And up comes Visio. And I can now be using Visio on my iPad, on my Android device or on any Windows devices anywhere in the world.
OK, so a really critical part of mobile application management that the others in the industry just don’t do.
So now let’s transition and talk about identity. Identity is more important than you can even imagine. So what I want to talk about here, and I want to show you some of the things that we’re doing from an identity management perspective to help you be able to identify how users are accessing information from a corporate perspective, and make sure that it’s appropriate.
Here’s the first thing. Active Directory has been the premier solution that enterprises around the world use to manage access to their enterprises. But now as organizations are embracing SaaS apps, how are they managing the identity in all the SaaS apps that are being used? And even a question before that, how many organizations have any idea how many SaaS apps are being used?
So what we have in preview right now is what we call the Cloud App Discovery. Cloud App Discovery allows us to go out and scan an environment and identify every SaaS app that’s being used by the employees and which employees are using that and then surface that up. So in this environment I can see that there have been 88 applications in this company that are being used by 1,600 users. If I click on this it gives me an experience here where it actually surfaces up to me all the different applications. It’s going to categorize them for me. I could go click on any one of these categories and it would show me information.
Let’s go take a look specifically at DocuSign. So here I can see that in the last 90 days DocuSign has been accessed or been used by almost 1,600 different users, with 383,000 uses of the service. How is that managed today? It’s great that I understand what SaaS apps are being used, but how do I manage them? And an interesting anecdote here, with the customers that we’ve worked with on this, before we show them the results in the preview we asked them how many SaaS apps they think their employees are using. And what they tell us is somewhere between 30 and 40. What we find on average is the average organization is using more than 300 SaaS apps and is completely unmanaged today.
So let’s now go bring these under management. So I can go into that same experience that Scott was showing you from an Azure perspective. The first thing I’ll point out here is we have done the work to integrate more than 2,000 SaaS apps into this solution to help you bring them under management. So what does that mean to bring these under management? So literally if I go to DocuSign and I go to “bring this device under management,” what it’s going to allow me to do is it’s going to allow me to configure a couple of different things.
So let’s bring this under management and what it’s going to allow me to do is one of two different things. First of all, I can go deliver a wonderful single sign-on experience, so that as my users on their device go to access a SaaS app they’re not challenged so they’re using the password all the time. It’s a single sign-on, but more importantly I can do the automatic provisioning of the user accounts into the service and more importantly when the user leaves my company I can make sure that they’re also  the user account is taken away from DocuSign, with the other SaaS apps that are being used. So being able to do a great identity management solution is really important.
But, I talked about all the attacks that are constantly being lobbed against all of us. What I want to show you here is a set of capabilities that we also had in the enterprise mobility suite that’s based upon machine learning inside of Azure that helps us see and identify suspicious or abnormal access attempts. And this is a set of reports I want to show you, one specifically here.
This is a report that shows us individuals who have logged in from different places around the world and in timeframes that just don’t make sense. So let’s take a look at Adam here. Adam logged in from the United States and then an hour and 46 minutes later logged in from the Czech Republic. We know that’s not possible. But, today this kind of thing happens as our user accounts get their passwords phished and we have no idea that it’s happening.
Well, now I can surface this up through the Enterprise Mobility Suite. I can go and force the user to reset a password. I can have them challenged with a multifactor authentication so they can verify who they are. But, I can now see these attacks. I can block the attacks. I can stop the attacks, so mobile device management done in the Enterprise Mobility Suite, mobile application management done in the Enterprise Mobility Suite. File protection, it’s as simple as what Julia showed you there inside of the tools like Word, Excel, PowerPoint, I can embed access rights into the application in the files themselves, done in the Enterprise Mobility Suite. And finally, strong identity management done again in the Enterprise Mobility Suite, this is far away the absolute best solution for you to take your customers to enable users to be productive in a mobile-first, cloud-first world, safe and secure that the corporate content is protected.
Now let me just close up here. Today we hold more power in our hands than we had on our desktops just a few years ago. And the power that we hold in our hands is what enables us to compete in this new world, it enables us to innovate, to give better customer service to our customers. Together we have the opportunity to go and help organizations around the world embrace new trends around mobility, truly making our users productive across all of their devices. It is one of the greatest opportunities that exist in the industry today. And in the next section we’re going to talk about how big the opportunity is and how we can get after it together.
Thank you. 
 Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome Corporate Vice President of the Microsoft Office division, John Case. 
  All right. Hello, WPC. All right, this is great. Hello to the corporate boxes up there. I hope you’re doing fine. 
I’m very happy to be here. I’m honored to be here. My name is John Case. I do work on the Office and Office 365 businesses, but today I’m representing the entire end-to-end commercial cloud. I’m going to talk to you about what we will work on together over the next year and beyond to seize the opportunity for commercial cloud across everything that we do together. 
So you’ve heard for the last hour or so from a bunch of our product leaders. And they talk about innovation, investments, and great things that they’re doing to drive value into the product. When you take all that together, when you think about productivity, biz apps and platform, and you look at the products that we’re creating — Office 365, Dynamics, and Azure — what you realize is that we believe, and I think you believe, our cloud platform is the most comprehensive, flexible, unique, integrated in the industry. 
We think that together the whole is greater than the sum of its parts. And I actually think the market agrees. And you may have seen some of these stats, but I want to show you in one place a set of the momentum things that are happening around our businesses together, customer, partner, and the business overall. 
The customer momentum on the Microsoft cloud is tremendous, 8,000 new Azure customers per week, 60 percent of the Fortune 500 having bought Office 365 in the past 12 months, over 4 million unique users of Microsoft Dynamics CRM. 
But what I love seeing the most is that partners are benefiting from this growth. And that’s the thing that makes me the most happy. 35 percent today, 35 percent of Azure revenue today comes directly from and through partners, which is an incredible statistic. 
CRM Online subscriptions, revenue per partner has doubled in the past year, doubled. And right now, three out of every four Office 365 customers are being deployed by one of you, someone in this room. 
I love seeing the partner momentum coming from the cloud, so thank you so much for everything that you’ve done to support these three businesses over the past year. Thank you.  
Now, the business is going to keep growing as well. A year ago, we were talking about $1 billion of Office 365 revenue run rate, and now we’re talking about 2.5, and that number is going to keep growing. 
Dynamics CRM, 40 consecutive quarters of double-digit growth. And I think that’s just going to continue. We’ll continue to show you the momentum in the market, and we hope that you come along with us. 
Now, one of the great things about the cloud, one of the great things, is just how fast we can innovate. How fast we can change things as needed. We took a look back over the last year and thought, “What were the big things that we did together with the partners?” And we came up with an entire huge list. And we said, but what were the four or five we wanted to specifically reference here, things that we did together over the past year. So this is a few of them that we put together. 
The first, about a year ago, Azure 365 was just getting started in Open. Intune was added. Azure and Open was something that Scott just talked about. Just came out in the past few weeks. 
Microsoft Dynamics Marketing and Social Listening, this is marketing automation and social monitoring apps were put into Dynamics CRM products in May. 
Office 365 on the iPad. Since that was released in March, there have been 27 million downloads of our Office iPad apps, and that’s just continuing to grow. 
Azure machine learning. Scott talked about Azure machine learning a few moments ago. And, you know, this is something where when that becomes truly available to everybody today, we think this app, which is a service for analytics in the cloud, will become a really exciting way for you to use Azure to help your customers. 
And finally, I’m announcing here that CRM Online will come into open licensing during this fiscal year. That’s a new announcement today. Yeah.  
Looking at all that together, you realize, though, that product itself is only half the story. And we love doing investments in the product. And we think that’s an incredible way for us to drive demand for you and for us. But we’ve also been investing heavily in what I’ll call the customer life cycle. 
So for the rest of this talk, we’re going to spend a few minutes talking about the customer life cycle, things that we’re doing to help you on that journey because we believe that successful cloud partners engage at every stage of the customer journey. And we have to do more to help you do it. 
Now, we’ve been looking at our partner group today and thinking about what do successful partners do that really differentiate themselves on the cloud? And we did a study with IDC. And in this study, this is specific to Office 365, but we think the points are applicable to the whole cloud business. 
We actually think that partners today are doing some different things to be successful in the cloud. The first is successful partners are three times more likely to do proactive marketing. They tend to attach four or more services to each deal. 
There’s a great partner in the U.K. called TechQuarters. I don’t know if you’ve heard of them, but for every dollar of licensing revenue they do on Office 365 — sorry, every pound, I said U.K., every pound — they do six pounds of services revenue attached to that pound of revenue. That’s an incredible transition. Think about how much you can add simply to the license itself. 
They’re 8X more likely to be a managed service provider. And they tend to drive much higher customer satisfaction and renewal rates. 
So what I propose to do now for the next 10 minutes or so is drill into these stages. Tell you about investments we’re making in each of the stages of the life cycle: sales, onboarding, enhancement, management, and renewal. 
And you can think, “What are the steps that I can take as a partner to put my name on this list as a successful cloud partner?” 
Let’s start with selling. One of the things we’re announcing today, available now to the market, is the Microsoft Cloud Solution Provider Program. This is a true cloud reseller program. We’ve taken a lot of feedback from you on this. Partners in the program will be able to directly provision customer subscriptions and provide one monthly bill for partner services and Microsoft services together. 
You can also directly manage these customers with things like the partner admin center, and you will own the tech support relationship.  Thank you. 
This is a big deal, the Cloud Solution Provider program. We’ll start with Office 365 and Intune, but during the course of the year, we’ll also bring Azure and Dynamics CRM Online into this same reseller program. So all our commercial cloud businesses will be interested in this provider program. 
We’ll roll it out over the next 12 months into 48 countries to select partners. And we’ll work with you country by country on who belongs in this program. It’ll be some different kinds of partners and some of our existing partners. For us, this capability is a major step forward in working with you on taking our businesses to the cloud to customers. 
Onboarding. So we’re past sales. Onboarding. On the onboarding side, one of the things we see conclusively is that the faster that customers get to usage and get engaged with a partner, the much more likely they are to renew, much higher customer satisfaction, we’re able to add far and far more high-value services, and we deliver more qualified leads for things like expansion. So the math is pretty simple. Faster time to value, faster time to usage equals much faster partner opportunity. 
We’re going to do a bunch of things in the product. For example, in Office 365 to help customers do more onboarding in an automated way. And we’ll have a lot of direct connections to those customers. And our intent is for every single new customer that comes into Office 365, for example, or Dynamics or Azure, to make sure that there is a partner attach to every single one of those new customers. And we’ll help provide that.  I’m waiting for that one.  Okay, there we go. 
And we’ll create new space for you to do more things on complex deployment, more things on enhancement. And I’m going to spend some time talking about that now. 
Once you’ve got customers onboarded, we think the next biggest opportunity for partners is to enhance the customer cloud experience. And this can take a variety of forms. One thing can just simply be migrating of existing applications, which we think is over a $6 billion opportunity for partners. 
Integration, connecting one service to another or a hybrid environment, we think also is a multibillion-dollar opportunity. 
Apps alone. We’ve seen over 5 million apps for Office 365 and Azure installed into our cloud businesses through our stores. And global scale, we’re reaching a billion users, and getting to global scale enables you, if you build one of these apps, to kind of hook yourself to that locomotive. 
I’ve got some examples of partners that are doing this work now, and I just want to reference a couple of them because I see some really exciting work happening with partners enhancing one of our cloud services. 
This could be migration. Partners like AvePoint and Dell Software doing great migration work. It could be integration. Zapier, for example, doing really exciting things integrating apps by the hundreds. 
It could be scale. Skylight Systems, a two-person ISV reaching thousands and thousands of customers through our Azure and Office 365 stores. 
Or it could be global ISVs. You saw a great demo a little while ago of a Salesforce experience, but partners like Salesforce and DocuSign are choosing to build apps for Office 365, Azure, and in some cases CRM Online specifically to take advantage of that sale opportunity. 
One thing that we’re announcing today that you heard a little bit about already is the Azure Certified Program. The first six partners are live today, phase one. It’s Azure certified for virtual machines, for partners running in a single virtual machine and a bring-your-own-license configuration. 
We’re excited today that partners like Oracle, SAP, Barracuda, Riverbed signed up now and live in the Azure gallery. 
But this is open to anyone who wants to build this kind of application in a VM. And there’s a way to apply and get certified, and this will be a great way to say your apps are certified for Azure and pre-loaded in our gallery for display. 
Once you get past enhancement, I want to talk a little bit about support. Because I actually think managing customers is a requirement that you have if the customers expect you to be front and center of the life cycle at all times. 
Already during this year, we’ve done things like the Azure Admin Console. We launched the Office 365 Partner Admin Center back in January with updates coming all the time. 
We also realized, though, that you need a different class of support service. Many of you were involved in a pilot for this over the past year where we gave you unlimited break-fix support, for example, for certain kinds of competencies, and really a unique tier of support for gold partners. And that was the pilot this year, but we’ve actually decided to institutionalize it. And we’re announcing today signature cloud support, which is a continuation of this support service, unique for partners, and will apply to Azure, Intune, Office 365, and soon Office Dynamics CRM. 
So for us, we realize that you have to have support from us that enables you to serve your customers end to end. And we want to provide that. You’ll hear a lot more about this during the week, and Gavriella will talk about it in a few minutes. Signature cloud support for partners. It’s a good thing.  
That brings us to the end of the life cycle, but by no means the least-important stage, which is the renewal. 
And there’s some interesting data to share here, which I think you’ll find fascinating, as I do. 
We know that when partners are engaged and engaged early, we have a much higher renewal rate. So customers are using the service actively and you’re engaged with that customer, the reality is that renewal rates are almost 100 percent. 
And we want to bring you as deeply into this renewal process as possible. Already, for things like CRM Online, you can see all the customer communications through this secure partner website. For 365 and Azure partners, you’re already getting a consolidated e-mail detailing all the upcoming renewals from your customer base, and including you in all the customer contacts. That’s these e-mails on the bottom. 
But because I have telemetry on those e-mails, there’s something I know that you might not, which is that only less than half of you are actually opening the e-mails we send you. And only 15 percent of you are actually clicking on the e-mail to find out more about what your partners are up to. So the reality is, renewal for us, we want to give you these tools. We want to tell you what’s coming. We want you to know what customers are up for renewal. We need you to see that through to the end. Right? That’s actually an incredibly important step. 
So renewal for us, we’ll continue to provide you any data you need or ask for to know what’s happening to your customers and what they are and what stage of renewal. 
That’s the end-to-end life cycle. We’re making investments in selling. We’re making investments in onboarding. We’re showing you how you can do more kinds of enhancement through things like developer tools, but also apps. We’ll help you manage through admin centers, dashboards and support. And with renewal, we’ll keep giving you information about which of your customers is up for a renewal stage. 
The reality is, every one of our major cloud businesses has some huge sales opportunities ahead of them this year. If you look at that list, these are pretty significant things. These are door-swingers, right? 
Office 365. Every single customer I talk to is working on a social strategy. Every single customer I talk to is thinking about what to do with click-to-run on the Office 365 client. 
Microsoft Azure. This year alone, when Windows Server 2003 comes to the end of service, there’s a $6 billion opportunity with 22 million instances still running on Server 2003. You can bring them to the cloud, you can bring them to a hybrid solution. This is an immense sales opportunity. 
Microsoft Dynamics is rolling out a new sales productivity solution that’s a combination of CRM Online, Office 365 and Power BI. It transforms sales forces in sort of a highly connected and collaborative experience. It’s a huge opportunity for partners. And every one of these is a big opportunity. 
The reality is, we’ll keep driving demand on these things. We’ll keep arming you with those tools, arming you with the ways to give you data, help you with renewal, help you do management. 
For us, that’s the end-to-end vision, okay? 
Now, I’m going to bring a guest on stage and I will leave you. I’m going to bring Gavriella Schuster to the stage. She’s from the MPN team. She wants to talk directly about changes happening in the MPN program, and she’s going to help you turn the words I shared with you into real dollars. So I’m going to leave now and give it to her, look forward to talking to some of you during the week. Gavriella, please join us.  
 Please welcome executive vice president, Microsoft Cloud and Enterprise, Scott Guthrie. 
 Well, good morning, everyone, and welcome to WPC.
We now live in a mobile-first, cloud-first world, and at Microsoft we remain committed to enable you as partners to deliver the very best solutions to your customers in this new environment.
Today, I’m going to talk about how you can power those solutions using the cloud, and some of the great work we’re doing to enable partners to build successful businesses on top of it.
Azure is Microsoft’s cloud computing platform and enables you to move faster and do more. 
A little over two years ago, we outlined our new strategy for Azure, a strategy that enables customers to use both infrastructure as a service and platform as a service capabilities together, a strategy that enables you to use the best of the Windows ecosystem and the best of the Linux ecosystem together, and one where we deliver unparalleled productivity and enable you to build applications and solutions for all devices. And since then, we’ve been hard at work fulfilling those promises.
This past year was a major year for us, and we shipped more than 300 significant new features and services. 
The next 12 months is going to be even bigger. In fact, this week, we have a bunch of great new announcements that we’ll be demoing for the very first time today.
As we’ve rapidly expanded our features and footprint, we’ve seen the usage of Azure rapidly grow. 
More than 57 percent of the Fortune 500 companies are now deployed and running on top of Azure. 
Customers are now running more than 300,000 publicly facing websites on Azure and hosting more than 1 million SQL databases. 
We actually have more than 30 trillion objects now stored in the Azure storage systems, more than 300 million users in our Azure Active Directory, and we’re processing more than 13 billion authentications every single week. 
And we now have more than 1.6 million developers registered with our new Visual Studio Online service, which we launched just this past November.
This tremendous growth would not have been possible without the fantastic partners we have here in this room at WPC. 
One of the things that makes Azure unique is the breadth of the partners who are now integrating with it, and it’s great to see both a lot of our longstanding partners on this slide, as well as partners you might not expect in the past, such as Oracle, Salesforce and Linux distributions. 
The cloud provides an even bigger opportunity for all of us to partner together and deliver more value to our collective customers. And I want to say a big thank you for all of you joining this week to talk about how we do this together.
I want to start off by spending a few minutes talking about how we differentiate Azure versus others in the market. When I talk to customers and partners about Azure, I often show these three overlapping circles of capabilities: hyper-scale, enterprise-grade and hybrid. 
The Microsoft cloud is the only cloud that delivers on all three, and combined they provide a truly unique cloud solution that enables you to deliver differentiated applications and solutions to your customers. And what I want to do is spend a little time drilling into each one of them now.
One key element of hyper-scale is having a cloud that provides truly global reach. We’ve been hard at work expanding Azure to run all over the world. The circles here on this map above me indicate Azure regions, which are clusters of datacenters where you can go ahead and deploy and run your applications and solutions.
Just last week, we announced two new Azure regions that we’re opening up inside North America, and together we now have more than 17 Azure regions deployed around the world. To put this in perspective, this is two times the number of regions that AWS provides, and more than five times the number of public regions that the Google cloud currently provides.  And what’s great about this is it enables you to use Azure to deploy and run your apps even closer to your customers than ever before.
Now, what I think makes some of these regions truly unique is not just the global coverage they provide but also the huge scale of capacity each one delivers. And so what I want to do is actually just spend a little bit of time drilling into and giving you a perspective of what each one of these regions looks like.
So each one of these green dots is typically composed of multiple datacenter buildings that are close together. Our new North America facilities that we just opened up this past week support up to 16 datacenters clustered together.
And what makes each of these buildings sort of unique is it’s the size of a football pitch, each individual one. And if you’re not familiar with American football, that’s the equivalent of being able to store two passenger planes within each, minus the passengers. This is a feature I will say we’ve never taken advantage of yet, and I hope never to have to, but at least gives you some perspective on the scale.
And when you park all these things together, this kind of gives you a sense of scale and capacity in terms of the total amount of footprint that each one of these datacenters has, and it’s enough that you can actually store and run more than 600,000 servers in that one particular region. And remember, we have 17 of these regions now around the world, which gives you a sense of the scale and capacity that you can bet on when you choose Azure.
This hyper-scale capacity gives immense scale economics to us, which is going to allow us to continually cut our prices. It also gives you as partners the ability to instantly scale up and scale down solutions with confidence, anywhere in the world.
Now, ultimately, we think there’s going to be three large hyper-scale providers out there in the world that are going to be able to achieve this type of scale footprint, basically us — Microsoft — Amazon and Google. Our plan is to differentiate from the other two by the level of enterprise-grade support we provide you, as well as the unique hybrid capabilities that enable you to deliver integrated customer solutions. And with Azure, we’re committed to delivering the best enterprise-grade cloud service out there.
Gartner this past spring updated its magic quadrant surveys of cloud providers and credited Microsoft as being a leader in their infrastructure as a service, enterprise application platform as a service, public cloud storage services and X86 server virtualization magic quadrants. In fact, Microsoft is the only vendor listed as a leader in all four of the different magic quadrants. 
This week, we’re also announcing extended support for our Microsoft Azure government cloud, which is an instance of Azure, which is operated by U.S. citizens with security clearance. This enables you to build and deliver public sector solutions now to U.S. federal, state and local governments, as well as agencies and schools, and provide even greater partner opportunity from the markets that you serve. 
Now, Microsoft’s the only hyper-scale cloud provider with software that runs both in the cloud, as well as on-premises and in service provider environments. This enables partners to maximize their customer reach, leverage their existing customer relationships and deliver the types of integrated hybrid solutions that enterprises require.
We now deliver a suite of capabilities and solutions that enable you to easily connect and integrate every existing Windows Server environment to the cloud. You can now add, for example, backup, tiered storage, disaster recovery solutions to your existing infrastructure. You can also span SQL databases now between on-premises environments, as well as the cloud. You can share a common identity solution with Active Directory across both on-premises applications, as well as devices and cloud-based hosted services, including SaaS-based solutions from third parties.
And with our new Express Route networking service, you can now ensure that all of the traffic between an on-premises datacenter and Azure runs over a private, dedicated network fiber, which delivers total security, as well as guaranteed network quality of service.
Last week, we announced that Microsoft successfully completed the acquisition of InMage, a provider of business continuity solutions for the cloud.
With InMage technology, we’re going to enable you to deliver disaster recovery solutions for on-premises Hyper-V, VMware and bare metal servers, running both Windows and Linux, to the cloud. This enables customers to use the cloud to run their existing on-premises apps with even more confidence, knowing they can always failover to the cloud service if necessary, as well as enable much easier migration of existing workloads into the Microsoft Azure cloud.
Last week, we also announced an update of Microsoft Azure StorSimple, including the release of our new Series 8000 hardware appliances. This enables customers to easily build our storage capacity on-premises and automatically use the cloud for backup, disaster recovery, as well as tiered storage capacity. With StorSimple, you can now help your customers reduce their storage spend by 40 to 60 percent and enable a wide range of compelling new storage scenarios.
Beyond just integration, Microsoft is the only hyper-scale cloud provider that also is committed to delivering a consistent experience across public cloud, on-premises and service provider environments. This enables you to deliver solutions anywhere to be able to leverage Windows Server and System Center inside your own datacenters or inside service providers, enable you to bet on a cloud architecture that can adapt and meet any demanding needs, one with a common operating system and hypervisor, management APIs, administration portal and common programming model experience. 
And we have dozens of hosting service providers here today that are already delivering on top of this promise and providing the ability for customers as well as partners to host their solutions in any datacenter around the world.
So hyper-scale, enterprise-grade, hybrid. Azure is the only cloud that delivers on all three. Combined they really provide a truly unique cloud offering that enables you to deliver truly differentiated solutions for your customers and provide enormous opportunities to grow your business.
This week, we’re going to highlight a number of these great opportunities across a number of different end-to-end scenarios, ranging from transforming your infrastructure to storing and analyzing data to managing mobile devices and mobile workforces and using the cloud to deliver great applications.
We’ll take a quick look at one of them, which is using Azure to build and deploy highly available SharePoint solutions.
How many people here have built out a SharePoint server farm in the past? A few people have. How long did it take you to do? Usually a couple days, a couple weeks, a couple months.
One of the things that we’re doing today with a new release of Azure is making it possible to build out those types of server farms literally in minutes, and providing a completely automated way that you can take advantage of our cloud-based infrastructure services in order to host and run those types of server farms in the cloud.
So what I have here in front of me is the Microsoft Azure administration portal, and this provides a nice view that lets me see the health of all the different regions around the world. 
And I can choose to create new resources by clicking this New button or by exploring what’s called the Azure Gallery. The Azure Gallery basically gives me a view in terms of all the types of services that I can now go ahead and easily create directly inside the management portal.
And one of the things you’ll notice here, and we’ll talk about it in a little bit, is how this doesn’t just contain Microsoft solutions; this now also is flexible so that you can actually host your own solutions inside this gallery as well, and that we make it seamless so that you can integrate both for customers to integrate both Microsoft as well as any partner solution in one single portal experience.
What I’m going to take advantage of is the new service that we’re launching today that makes it really easy for you to set up a SharePoint server farm running inside infrastructure as a service VMs.
Creating it is really easy. All I have to do is just say, give it a name, give it a user, and with that I basically have the basics of being able to create a farm of multiple machines in one go. 
Now, if I want to, I can drill into some of the other default settings that have been configured for me. One of the things you’ll notice here is that as part of creating this farm we don’t just create web servers and/or databases. We actually take web servers, databases, we also provide domain controllers as part of this template, and we stitch all of them together and wire them up for you automatically.
If you want to change any of the default settings, for example, say my database server size, I can just go ahead and click here in order to expand out and see my SQL settings. You’ll notice here as part of this I can actually look to see what size virtual machines that I’m actually using as part of this. And so, for example, here you can see I can run a standard A5 server or an A6. I can see full costing information to making any of those changes there.
I can also optionally choose to run this server farm either single instance or in what’s called high availability. And when I do high availability it will make sure that my SQL databases, as well as my domain controllers and web servers, are set up so that even if any of the individual VMs goes down, or if I need to update it for maintenance, my overall server farm always has total 100 percent availability for my customers.
And once I’m done, all I need to do is click this “create” button and then Azure will completely automate, building out this application and running it as a single instance, a single deployment unit inside our cloud.
Now, in the interest of time, I’m actually going to show you one that we deployed a little bit earlier. It’s right here called Contoso Corp Farm. One thing that’s nice here is that you’ll notice that I’m actually seeing when I drill into this deployment not a cluster of lots of individual VMs that I have to manage myself, but rather a single deployment unit that contains all of the pieces necessary to run the server farm inside it. So you can see there the domain name, the virtual machines, as well as the virtual network that I joined these VMs to. And I can just click on any of these individual resources now to drill in to see, for example, the individual VMs that make it up.
You’ll notice here I’m running in high-availability mode. So I basically have redundant databases, domain controllers and web servers for everything. If I want to, I can then click on any of the individual VMs in order to see even more details about it, and so for example, I can actually see what my total spend is on that particular machine. So it’s going to cost me about $65 a month. I can see any events or wire up any alerting rules for any of the individual instances inside here.
And even once it’s actually running, it will start populating and provide a little bit of a graph. It will show me the CPU utilization as well as the network trafficking announced between the instance, which makes it incredibly easy to basically manage everything in one experience and, again, in a completely automated way you can now stand up this size of server farm literally in minutes in any of our Azure datacenters around the world. 
What’s cool though is not only can you stand up our software, but you’ll also be able to stand up your own. So, for example, if we go to the Azure Gallery again and click on virtual machines and scroll down here, one of the things you might notice is something called the Azure Certified Program, which is basically a bunch of virtual machines that our partners have actually gone ahead and built and certified and tested on Azure that are populated as part of this gallery as well.
And so in the same way, you can have that nice easy wizard experience in order to stand up your infrastructure, so you can actually drill into the gallery. You can see a nice view, for example, of this Barracuda web application firewall, which is a software appliance that you can run as a virtual machine that provides additional security protection against anything you’re running inside Azure.
This is provided by Barracuda, so you can actually see a nice description of what all it provides. We can click the “create” button here and in the same way I could stand up that SharePoint VM, I can now configure everything I need to stand up that Barracuda device in this one simple pane. Hit create, and then in a matter of minutes I’ll basically now have a security software appliance running inside Azure provided by Barracuda protecting my solutions. And this is just one example of the types of great partner VMs that we’re going to be populating within the gallery, and that we think that by having integrated this experience provides a wonderful opportunity both for our end customers to be able to be more successful in the cloud, but also for you as partners to be able to monetize even more. 
As I mentioned, the Azure Gallery is fully integrated into the overall management portal experience, and all of these Microsoft Azure Certified VMs are now populating within it. Here’s a list of just some of the certified VMs that are now available as of today. You can actually go out to Azure and start deploying immediately.
We expect this list to grow even more in the future, and it provides a great opportunity where if you have any existing software that runs inside virtual machines, we’d love to be able to integrate it as part of this program. We also then provide a mechanism so that if you’re selling platform as a service, or SaaS capabilities, you’ll also be able to participate inside that Azure Gallery as well.
Another great thing that we’re excited to announce today is that we’re adding Microsoft Azure to the Open Program. This enables you to sell Azure credits to your customers.  We’re making it easy for customers to activate their Azure accounts and credits directly within the Azure portal. And as part of this activation process, one of the things that we’ve really tried to do is make sure that we not only make it easy for the customer, but we also really make it easy for the partner to be successful as well.
So as part of this actual activation experience, you can see the customer actually provides the email address of the partner that they’re working with. And you’ll see in a few more slides, we’re providing a way that you can remain integrated as part of this experience as that customer ends up using Azure more.
Customers can now apply these Open credits that you sell them to any of the Azure Services within the portal. So, for example, they could use them to stand up a SharePoint Server farm, or use any of the other capabilities that Azure provides. We provide the ability for the customer to directly see inside the Azure portal how many Open credits are remaining that you sold them. And we, by default, wire up an automated alert to both the customer as well as the partner so that you can see as the credits start to run low, allowing you to reload additional credits to the customer and maintain a super-close customer relationship.
We think Azure and Open is going to open up even more business opportunities for you, and enable you to directly monetize the consumption of all Azure resources by your customers.
I mentioned earlier in the talk about how Azure is not just about infrastructure capabilities. We also provide a wealth of higher-level platform as a service capabilities as well. These include services to manage and store data as well as run rich analytics and visualization on top of this data as well.
What I’d like to do is invite James Stulz on stage to show off our Power BI service, which is one of the great data services that we provide.
 Thank you very much, Scott. 
So I’m going to show Power BI. I’m going to show you where we’re taking the service in the next couple of months. For those who don’t know Power BI, it is a business intelligence service that we announced and launched in February of this year. It’s a single pane of glass that’s designed to be very easy, fresh, modern, a way for business users, ultimately end users, to surface the data they care most about to get a real-time view of their enterprise, and when necessary or when desired, to dive through that pane of glass into very rich interactive exploration capabilities.
Here I’m showing you a live real-time operational dashboard for a fictional company called Contoso. This was actually built by one of our service partners. And it is, as I said, live. You can click around. This shows at a glance, for the travel management part of Contoso, upcoming trips, where people are traveling, how much budget I have left, how much I’ve spent. We’re going to come back to this in a moment and drill through. But I want to show you how easy it is to get started building one of these dashboards.
So if I click over here to the right you can see a list of out-of-the-box data sources that are available to bring data in and begin modeling it. One of these is Salesforce. You may have seen about a month ago we announced a relationship with Salesforce, and as part of that relationship we are integrating Salesforce applications with Power BI, enabling you to bring that data over, model it, mash it up, visualize it.
And so I’m going to click on this and login as my good friend Ernest at Contoso. And when I do that we’re making a connection to Salesforce. We’re pulling the data over, modeling it, and just like that we’ve created a real-time dashboard that allows the user to get started, no coding required, very, very easy to begin to pull the data over that you care most about, visualize it, and this is, again, a live dashboard. You can drill in and start looking at sales here for 2014, for Q3, by month, and down to the individual opportunity. I can start to resize these if they’re ones that I don’t want that were pulled in. I’ve got the ability to delete it. And again, this is a starting point. This is where partners really come in. To make this really valuable building on top of this, adding additional data, creating mash-ups, using our data management technologies allows you to make this even better.
Now let me show you something really cool. So this is Power Q&A. So not only did we bring the data over and visualize it in a real-time mode, I’ve got the ability to drill through and begin asking questions. So one of the things, let’s say, I’ve heard is that we are light on opportunities for August. And I want to start looking and understanding what’s going on. So here I can begin typing, and you can see as I type in real-time, data starts to show up. I can ask questions using natural language. Let’s look at month. Yes, it looks like August is terrifying. So I want to understand why that might be. And you can see by asking a few questions that I have an issue here with utilities.
So typically a very good industry sector for me, we’re light in August, with a few simple questions I’ve been able to drill in and identify some follow-up that I can do now, talking to that industry group. I can even pin this now to my dashboard so that I’ve effectively operationalized this. So now I can continue to track how we’re doing. Once I go have the conversation, I can come back and, again in real-time, see if this pipeline begins to fill up — so a great way to keep a pulse on the business.
So I’ve shown you how easy it is to get started. Let’s go back to the partner-created dashboard. And I want to show you a very immersive analytics experience that we have built on top of this. You can see down at the bottom here that I have about $7.93 million of budget remaining in calendar year 2014, but I’ve overspent by about $1.38 million thus far. So I want to try and figure out how I can close this gap without impacting my business, and I’m going to go over here to the PPI where you can reach out and touch the data.
So here you can see those same tiles. I’ve got my variants. I’ve got my budget remaining. This is amazing, actually. I can literally touch my data. I drill in. Now what I’m about to see, this was partner-created, so part of what you get with Power BI is the ability as a partner to build solution packs for Power BI. In this particular case, the solution pack included data, it included connectivity to the data sources, it included visualization and this interactive report.
So let’s try and figure out how we can get out that $1.38 million, hit our budget, but let’s do it without impacting the business negatively. We want to save money, but we want to operate well. I don’t like pie charts, so I’m going to change this to a tree map. So now I’ve got a good view here of external travel, internal travel, trade shows, et cetera. We can see over here in the upper right my budget remaining. Clearly I’ve overspent. I already knew that. That’s why I’m here. So I’m going to get rid of that and make a little bit of room.
I’m going to look down here. So here I’ve stratified out travel costs by booking time. I’m going to pull up here my zero- to six-day you can see cost per mile. I’m going to change this to the additional cost for traveling business class. What you can see now is that I’m spending almost $2.5 million remaining in the year on business travel above and beyond what I would have spent on coach for the zero- to six-day travel. So this offers an opportunity perhaps for me to cut back.
For those people booking travel in the zero to six-day time period, we can create a policy, which is you must fly coach. But, we don’t want to do that. There may be times where flying business class is important; you want to show up fresh, you want to ensure that you’re going to have a good customer meeting or a meeting with one of our partners. So we can begin to explore here what if I cut out training travel on business class, it doesn’t really do a whole lot for me, perhaps trade show travel not much there, internal travel. And so you can see through a few touches here, I’ve been able to identify now if I set a policy, which is for zero- to six-day travel, business class is no longer allowed for internal visits, book coach. I’ve now found $1.38 million, and I can go implement that policy. I can pin this back and follow it.
So this is a quick look at Power BI, where we’re taking it. If there was ever a partner opportunity, this is it. Microsoft has a wide range of data management tools. Microsoft is a leader in business intelligence, and we give you now a tool that is easy for customers to adopt, but that creates a giant sucking sound for data. Demand for additional insights, additional data, and this is where you come in. It’s easy to get started. Go to PowerBI.com; sign up for a free trial. I urge you to do it today.
Thank you very much. 
 James showed you kind of one of the great services that we already have out there with Power BI. I’m excited to announce another great service, data service, that we’re launching today, which is the Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Service. With Power BI, we help you get insight from the data on what happened in the past. With Azure Machine Learning, we also allow you now to predict the future. It’s a game-changing machine learning service that enables you to analyze any data and operationalize predictions based on it and, in doing so, radically transform your business.
As an example, tomorrow here at WPC, there’s a great talk from the Azure ML team that’s being done. And one of the partners that is going to be talking in the talk is Neal Analytics, which is helping a large e-commerce site optimize their marketing spend for Google search terms using a solution based on Azure machine learning as well as Power BI. And that machine-learning solution that they deliver to their customer is already going to enable the customer to save more than $40 million a year in search optimization spend and enable the customer to radically improve the growth of their business.
And I highly recommend watching the talk tomorrow to learn more about this great new Azure Machine Learning Service. And you can go out to Azure.com today in order to sign up and give it a try.
So you’re going to see many more talks and demos throughout the week on Azure and our overall hybrid cloud story and strategy, including all the great work that we’re doing with Windows Server and System Center. Whether you’re looking to help your customers transform their infrastructure, store and analyze data, manage their mobile workforce, create an Internet of Things, or use the cloud to build and deliver great applications, we have a great set of cloud solutions for you.
The new mobile-first, cloud-first world we are all entering is going to provide unlimited opportunities for all of us in this room. And we at Microsoft are committed to making sure that we have the best cloud for you to partner with. Partners have always been the backbone of our success, and we will not succeed without you.
So I want to thank all of you for attending WPC this week, and I really look forward to the opportunity to partner with you even more. Thanks, and have a great week.
Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the 2014 Microsoft Worldwide Partner Conference.And now please welcome the corporate vice president of Microsoft’s Worldwide Partner Group, Phil Sorgen. 
I just have to thank Rodrigo and Gabriela. Wow, what an amazing performance to start our morning.
Well, hello, partners, and welcome to the 2014 Worldwide Partner Conference. I’m Phil Sorgen and I run the Worldwide Partner Group, and I’m honored to be with you this week.
And I have to say, what a way to start the week.I was out there with quite a few of you yesterday afternoon watching the final of the World Cup between Argentina and Germany.  What a game, what a game!
Now, as I see it, it was a competitive tournament, it was a well-fought final, and two great performances.So congratulations to Germany for coming out on top.  There’s my friends from Germany.
Now, staying on this theme of great performances, I can’t think of a better way to start this conference than to recognize some great performances within our partner community. I got visibility to hundreds of submissions that represented such outstanding customer success stories. We went through a comprehensive and thoughtful process and narrowed that down, and I now want to give a warm welcome to a special group of folks sitting on either side of this stage that represent the very best in us all as partners and as businessmen and women.
Please join me in celebrating the 2014 Partner of the Year Award winners.
Thank you to these partners for your commitment to our mutual customers and for being shining examples of what Microsoft partners can achieve. Come on, let’s give these winners one more round of applause.
Now, I want to get right to the heart of things.This is a really important week for us. First, it’s our fiscal year field kickoff with all of you.But second, it’s our single biggest opportunity of the year to demonstrate to each and every one of you that making a bet on Microsoft, that making the decisions to invest in a partnership with us is the best business decision you can make. That’s what we’re all here for, and that’s what the Worldwide Partner Conference is all about.
Now, this is the first time I’ve had the opportunity to speak to many of you directly, relatively new to this role, less than a year.But I can tell you I’m not new to our partners at Microsoft. I’m a career seller, and I’ve been selling with Microsoft partners for over 18 years. As a matter of fact, there’s a number of partners here at this conference today that I’ve had the personal experience to sell with, and we’ve had some great successes together.
It’s that firsthand experience that has driven my deep belief in the power of partnering. I’ve had the opportunity to see the best of your capability come together with the best of our capability to drive phenomenal customer outcomes.
So I feel right at home today working with partners from every corner of the world, listening to your feedback, and making sure your success is at the top of our priority list.
I also want to thank you all for making the investment to join us this week at the Worldwide Partner Conference. We have partners who flew in from over 136 countries around the world to discover their opportunities with Microsoft and with each other.
I also find it quite appropriate that we gather today in Washington, DC, this being a place that at its best symbolizes discovery and vision for a better future.Leaders from around the world come here with an aim to develop partnerships for better tomorrows for the people and nationsthat they represent. So when I look out at all of you, I think it’s quite impressive to think that this is one of the largest gatherings of business leaders in the IT industry at a time of great opportunity.
So I’m here this morning to give you a sense of where Microsoft is headed, and to introduce you to some of the opportunities ahead this week for all of you.I want to be clear, though. Our primary goal of this Partner Conference is to show you the opportunities to grow your business today and why you should invest in growing your business in the future with Microsoft.
Now, to give you a sense of where Microsoft is headed, it’s always good to start with the here and now.And in the market today, Microsoft’s coming from a position of strength. Our brand is strong.It’s a trusted brand.Our Windows and Office franchises each boast over a billion users worldwide. Office 365 is our fastest growing commercial product ever. Our cloud platform is one of the leading platforms in the world, with 57 percent of the Fortune 500 using Azure.
But there’s no debating the fact that we face strong competition, both traditional competitors and a wave of new companies challenging us every single day, challenging us to deliver the very best innovation that we can offer our customers in a mobile-first, cloud-first world.
And you know what, we’re coming at it from a different place.Despite our consistent performance and class commercial products, Microsoft views itself as a challenger in this industry. And it’s only through groundbreaking innovation, a deep focus on the customer and building opportunities for our partners that we’re going to thrive.
This is our opportunity to be clear on our direction for the future. And to do that I want to frame in very simple terms the landscape we see in the market.
We see people connected to multiple devices of their choice, running applications to help them do things that both make them more productive and candidly entertain them.
This is creating an abundance of data, data that can provide people with greater insights to make better decisions.
And this exponential growth of connected users, devices and applications is being accelerated by the cloud.
Simply stated, that’s the world we live in. And you know what, that’s good news for everyone in this room.You see, our focus is to create the best cloud-connected experience on every device.
Productivity and platforms are at the center of our business. This focus is the very foundation of our mutual opportunity and our joint success. The Microsoft cloud platform, supporting our unparalleled stack of solutions, is our key differentiator.
But to add to this, we’re working across the industry to ensure that if our customers are using other vendors’ technologies, they can do that in our cloud as well.
And you can all leverage our platforms and solutions to deliver exactly what your customers wanta complete solution delivered where they want to be, whether that’s in our public cloud, a hybrid scenario or in a private cloud, and on any device. That’s the power of our partnership.
And together we’re emerging stronger in this world.When Satya Nadella took over as our new CEO, people started taking a fresh look at Microsoft. And what they’re seeing today is a company that’s innovative, passionate, realistic and humble, yet confidentmore importantly, a company willing to challenge its own history and embrace the reality of our customers’ approach to technology.
We’re a partner-first company and we always have been.We go to market with partners, period. And with each new business model we introduce into the commercial market, we’re just expanding the opportunities for our partners to participate.
We strive every day to make our vision a reality and we work hard every day to help you make your vision a reality as well. So this week we’re going to show you the many ways that Microsoft can help you experience greater success with us and further your vision.
You’ll hear about riding the wave of cloud disruption with Microsoft and Azure.
You’re going to hear about how to help turn all of that abundance of data that our customers are generating into insights with tools like Power BI.
We’re going to discuss productivity in a mobile-first world, talking about opportunities with Office 365, CRM Online, all wrapped with a great management story.
We’re going to discuss ways that we’re going to help you seize the cloud opportunity.
And then we’re going to wrap up this morning’s session with Kevin Turner, our chief operating officer, who’s coming and laying down the path to winning together.
And on Wednesday, I’ll come back and talk about, share a view of our portfolio of how we invest in your success, and then our partners are going to take the floor to talk about selling in a modern world. We’ll talk about together how we can go win the next billion customers with Windows. And then something I know we’re all looking forward to, Satya Nadella will take the stage and share his vision for the future of Microsoft and your place beside us.
And in between these vision keynotes I really hope you’ll take advantage of the track keynotes that we’ve put together this week. Whether you’re interested in enterprise social or mobility, big data or the cloud, leadership or Dynamics, we’ve put all these sessions together and developed them to help you further your success.
So here we are. You have a week of discovery in store. I strongly encourage you to connect with the 3,000 Microsoft people who have come here to join you and bet on you every single day.
Connect with each other. There’s so much business to be done here at Worldwide Partner Conference.
You know, we live in a phenomenal time, and we’re lucky enough to participate in the most vibrant industry on this planet. And I truly believe that success is ours for the taking.
So have a great week at WPC, and I’ll see you throughout the conference. Thank you.
 Please welcome Corporate Vice President for Microsoft Windows Marketing Tony Prophet.
 Thank you. Thank you. You’re welcome and good morning. We are so thrilled that you could all join us here this week. And I’ve been so excited by the level of energy, commitment and passion that I’ve seen from our partners as I’m with them here this week in Washington. And also welcome to our customers and partners watching this on the Web around the world.
Now that video was a great example of partner collaboration. In this case, between the Mandarin Oriental Hotel group and two partners, Iris Software the system integrator, and InterKnowlogy the application developer.
Now as you saw the Mandarin group considered competing mobile platforms and they chose Windows. They chose Windows because for them it was the best platform to deliver a truly compelling mobile customer experience, with beautiful touch-first hardware, enabled by a rich set of open APIs, and built on enterprise-grade security and management.
Now as some of you know I’m relatively new to Microsoft. I spent the last eight-and-a-half years leading a team at Hewlett Packard, a team that delivered 400 million Windows devices around the world. And I joined Microsoft because I believe in Windows. I have seen the power of the Windows ecosystem around the world firsthand, and I believe in the future of Windows. And I bring to Microsoft a deep, personal appreciation, admiration, and respect for the unique and essential contribution that each of you brings to our mutual success. You wake up every morning imagining new solutions to delight our customers.
Our ecosystem is one of scale with a truly global footprint. We’ve got a vibrant device portfolio and we’re not highly fragmented. And we have an extraordinary suite of relevant cloud services. These cloud services are complemented by a compelling portfolio of partner apps and unparalleled desktop programs. But, most important, we have you. Our trusted partners are at the heart of this vibrant, open, and innovative ecosystem.
But, our technology world is changing. We are seeing truly seismic shifts, starting with the explosion in the number and variety of mobile devices. Further, our customers must choose among various cloud scenarios from public cloud, to hybrid, to private cloud, versus their on-premise solutions. And the security landscape is evolving in a worrisome way, with a growing array of new and persistent threats. Now, as Kevin Turner pointed out Monday, there has never been a year like this past year. Twelve people every second are victims of cybercrime, 400 million people every year.
Further, many customers are finding employees preferring, or even demanding bring your own device, BYOD scenarios, with all of the complexity and all of the security risk that that implies. And finally, the app ecosystem is becoming an increasingly confusing and complex maze of different APIs, different programming languages, different standards, different policies, different screen resolutions, different app stores, and different means of doing commerce.
Now, these seismic shifts demand a platform tailored to today’s mobile-first, cloud-first world. And that platform is Windows. Windows is a platform of global scale, which reaches to the cloud. Windows is business-ready. It universally supports the industry standard for productivity, Office and Office 365. Now in the smartphone race Windows is gaining momentum. We’ve got the Lumia 520 that’s quickly becoming one of the fastest-selling smartphones in many markets worldwide. And Windows is becoming the gold standard for mobile device management and security and it’s a platform built on the scale of 1.5 billion users around the world.
So at Microsoft we are committed. We are committed to moving faster. We are committed to listening actively to you, our partners and our customers. We are committed to embracing your feedback as we refine and evolve our platforms. We’re committed to partnering together with you to win in these exciting times, and we’re committed to making Windows the platform of choice.
We are accelerating the pace of our innovation and road map. And I’ll share a little bit more about that with you later. We’re working on our hardware partners on amazing new devices. We’re expanding our mobile device portfolio, and we’re answering a call for lower cost devices. We are accelerating our embrace of the cloud, and that is a cornerstone of the Microsoft strategy.
And we are delivering a groundbreaking converged developer platform, Windows Universal Apps. That platform will enable you to create universal apps that run across Windows devices, from a four-and-half-inch smartphone up to an 82-inch Windows PPI display. And we’ll leave no question that Windows defines the enterprise grade with the highest level of security and manageability, enterprise grade built on industry standards but bringing truly unique and differentiated capabilities.
Now clearly the world is moving fast, but so are we. Going forward our compass point is clear. We will be obsessed with the feedback and counsel of you, our partners and customers. We’ve heard your feedback and we’re pivoting from an approach that was based on multiyear Windows release cycles to regular updates, updates that go beyond simple fixes, updates that deliver new features, features that light up your digital work and life experiences.
You can see the major updates since 2013 to both Windows and Windows Phone; we’re delivering an array of new features, features that respond to the voices of our customers around the world. First, we focused on improving the core elements of the Windows mouse and keyboard experience. Now that bears repeating. Our Windows 8.1 update materially improved the Windows mouse and keyboard user experience. And we also responded to enterprise customer feedback, adding new features.
For example, the enterprise mode in Internet Explorer, which brings new and important backwards Web app compatibility, and we’ve extended our mobile device management capability. Now for Window Phone, you asked for more personalization and we delivered with important changes to the Start Screen. We added Action Center, and we added Word Flow shape writing. And, importantly, we added critical enterprise features to Windows Phone, VPN support, enterprise Wi-Fi, certificate management, and F-MIME for encrypted e-mail. And, finally, we added some magic, Cortana.
Now I’ve brought Nick Hedderman from my team with me to show you some of these Windows improvements in action.
Nick.
 Thank you, Tony, and good morning to you all.
So as Tony mentioned earlier, the latest version of Windows really embraces the mouse and keyboard user. And it starts with going directly to the desktop. So here’s my desktop in front of me, and I want to show you some of these changes that we’ve made.
You’ll notice along the taskbar at the bottom some of the more desktop-oriented programs like Internet Explorer and Word. And sitting alongside them as first-class citizens are these new applications that I’ve installed directly from the Windows Store. And they react just like those traditional programs with the little mini-pop-ups, and in certain cases even mini-controls that you can see here with my music app I can play a chord.
Now if I maximize one of these new applications, you’ll also notice at the top the title bar comes into view. So if I move my mouse cursor up there, I can minimize and close the application. And as I move my cursor back down to the bottom, that traditional taskbar comes back into view and allows me to interact with all of my different applications.
Now let’s click Starbucks and go into that staff experience. It’s a really great way of expressing my individuality and seeing all of those beautiful tiles come to life with rich information. And in this latest release, we’ve also embraced the mouse and keyboard. So just like usually I can right click, and I can resize and get a whole host of different options as I right click on those tiles. And if I wanted to, I can hold down the control button on the keyboard and use that to select multiple tiles. So just a few changes there on the PC.
Let’s move on to my phone. Now Windows Phone is the most personal smartphone around. And we’ve made some critical changes in this latest release, Windows Phone 8.1. The first thing you’ll notice is I can now really customize my phone by setting a beautiful image in the background there. It just happens to be of Washington in the spring and my tiles go translucent so that image comes to life through my phone.
And we also listened to your feedback and we heard loud and clear that you want all your notifications on your Windows Phone in one place. So we added something we call the Action Center. So from anywhere within the operating system I can just pull down and I can see all of my notifications in one place and I can take quick action to the settings that I’ve chosen at the top there.
Now, as Tony just mentioned, we’ve done some work on our keyboard. We’ve added what we call shape writing into that experience. So I’m going to start here a new message and I’m going to give you what I call the Mississippi test. This is a long word; lots of Ss and lots of Ps and you’ll notice that if I just glide my fingers over the keyboard it instantly gets that in a second.  So with this new keyboard ability built into Windows Phone 8.1 you can be an absolute e-mail machine on the move.
Now I want to finally show you some of the magic we’ve brought to life with Cortana. Cortana is your truly personal assistant, who knows you, understands you and helps you get ahead every single day. We’re currently rolling Cortana out to the U.S. as I speak and it’s going to be hitting the U.K. and China later in 2014.
Now before I get started and show you Cortana in action I did just want to mention that she accurately predicted 15 out of the 16 rounds in the World Cup, and of course, beating Google, which is cool, and correctly guessing the right team to win. So is anyone from Germany in the audience?  Congratulations.
So here’s Cortana home and this is very personal to me. She’s given me a little welcome. Good morning. Let’s get the day started. She’s telling me some things that I might want to know about, including the fact I’m on stage. You can see there she’s tracking some flights and so if I wanted to I could accept that and now those are going to be tracked and as the flight comes close she’s going to remind me about that. I can see some news. I can even see the weather at the bottom there.
I can also talk to Cortana in a very natural way. So I’ll start with a simple one. Wake me up at 6:00 a.m. tomorrow.
 Okay. I’ve turned on your 6:00 a.m. alarm.
 So you can see there I didn’t ask her to set the alarm. She just listened to my voice, figured it out and took action. Let’s try a little more complicated one. Add an appointment for Thursday at 8:00 p.m. Call it dinner with my wife.
 Okay. I’ll add quick dinner with my wife to your calendar for tomorrow at 8:00 p.m., is that right?
 Yes.
 Okay. I have added it. By the way, you have dinner with Tony at the same time. 
 Sorry, Tony, happy wife, happy life. 
Now Cortana works great with all the first-party experiences that I’ve just shown you. But, Cortana can also extend to your applications, as well. You can leverage our investment in our voice platform.
I want to show you an example that we’ve been working on with our partner Sage. Now in this scenario the customer can speak to Cortana and then she can invoke the Sage application on the phone and connect into the ERP system that Sage has in the background. And I’ll give you an example here for a very simple scenario and this is a stock check. Sage, stock check universal five.
 Asking Sage.
 It’s gone off to the application, connecting into the cloud.
 8,971 universal 5 1/4 SSDD flex DSK, 170 available in location East Warehouse.
 Pretty cool, huh?  That’s a great example of how you as partners can leverage our investment in the voice capabilities on Windows Phone.
So in summary, you’ve seen how Windows got even better for the mouse and keyboard user, and how Windows Phone has come to life with all these new changes from the Action Center to the Start Screen and of course Cortana.
Tony, back to you.
 And that was really impressive, and I feel great about our accelerating cadence.
Now, as Kevin Turner mentioned on Monday, we are hard at work on the next version of Windows. And while we have nothing to announce today, I will share with you a couple of features we’re thinking about.
Now this is the same screen shot that we shared at Build, our developer conference, earlier this year. Now the first feature I’ll share with you is the Start Menu. Now it’s like the old one, but better because this one has Live Tiles and modern apps. The second feature we’re thinking about is enabling modern apps to run windowed on the desktop versus only running in the immersive full-screen mode. This will enable you to run multiple modern apps side-by-side or layered or combination of modern apps and desktop programs side-by-side or layered.
So what you are seeing is clear evidence that we’re listening to you. We’re listening to your feedback and we’re actively using it to shape our road map and to guide our future thinking.
Now let’s take a look at some of the hardware innovation our OEM partners are bringing. Here’s a quick video of some of the amazing devices that are bringing Windows to life.
Thank you. Now clearly our OEM partners are raising the bar, offering thinner, lighter and faster devices like the beautiful HP Stream that Kevin Turner revealed on Monday. Now, naturally in that video and in our ecosystem you’ll see the conventional phone, tablet, notebook, and all-in-one form factors. And you’ll see some of those form factors in other ecosystems.
But what you won’t find in those ecosystems are the form factors like the two-in-one, the convertible, the docking stations, the ruggedized devices, the purpose-built point of sale devices, and the mobile all-in-one. And your customers can also enjoy SD cards, USB ports, and native pen support. You won’t find these on an iPad. And unlike Chromebooks, Windows devices are designed to work offline and with limited bandwidth. Windows devices run native Office. Windows devices work with thousands and thousands of peripherals, including pretty much every printer.
But what about the emergence of low-cost Android devices? Microsoft is responding. We have acted to mobilize the hardware ecosystem. You heard some of this from Kevin on Monday. This ecosystem is going to deliver a range of low-cost tablets and phones for the Windows platform. The Windows 8.1 update added support for devices with as little as 1 gigabyte of RAM and 16 gigabytes of storage. We’ve added 64-bit Windows support to the Intel Atom architecture.
With Qualcomm we’ve released smartphone reference designs. These reference designs will speed up the time to market and broaden the range of manufacturers making low-cost phone platforms. And we’re going to fight to win in this segment. And as you heard from Kevin, we’ve responded lowering our OEM licensing prices to zero in the less than nine-inch segment.
I would like to highlight a few of these low-cost devices for you. Of course, these devices complement the value-priced Lumia 630. But first I would like to highlight the Micromax Windows Phone. This will be available later this month. It will have a five-inch HD display. It will have a dual sim, which is a very important feature in many, many emerging markets, and a Qualcomm Snapdragon Quad4 processor.
Next is Xolo Windows Phone with a 4.7-inch display. It also has a dual sim. It’s available this month in India, and it will be the world’s lightest Windows Phone.
And finally, what I have in my hand will likely be the first seven-inch Windows tablet by a major brand. This entry-level device is being developed by Toshiba in close collaboration with Intel. It will be available soon, and you can bet that it will be offered at price points competitive with today’s seven-inch Android devices. Now just as important, you can be confident that it will bring the security, manageability and backward-app compatibility that your enterprise customers demand and at the moment cannot get from Android.
And this is just the beginning, the beginning of a wave of compelling low-cost Windows devices. So for you and for our customers the bottom line is, as you develop solutions that require low-cost Windows hardware, think Windows first. And it goes without saying, these will be price points that iPhones and iPads currently cannot be.
And just as we’re driving for mobile leadership, we’re also extending our embrace of the cloud. We have an extraordinary suite of cloud services to light up that array of devices that I just shared with you. Services of scale, familiar brands that are known and trusted around the world from the industry standard for productivity Office and Office 365 to Xbox Live, which delights and entertains us every day. These services connect hundreds of millions of people around the world every day.
But there’s even more. The Windows App ecosystem is making great strides. We’ve seen a 50 percent year-on-year increase in active developers, and our app catalogue has grown by nearly 100 percent with hundreds of thousands of apps, apps to work, create, learn and play. Of course we have consumer apps that you know and love, like Whatsapp, Spotify, WeChat, Pandora, but these consumer apps are complemented by a flagship portfolio of the industry’s leading line-of-business apps. For example, Microsoft and SAP have agreed to develop a new set of mobile apps for Windows and Windows Phone, bringing the power of the SAP platform to Windows mobile users.
And Blackboard, a world leader in education software, has agreed to roll together their existing mobile Learn and Collaborate products into a single product with a compelling experience for Windows tablets and phones.
And then there’s AutoDesk, a world leader in 3-D design and engineering used by millions of professionals around the world. You can find their flagship AutoCAD 360 application in the Windows Store.
Now, of course, we have the exceptional Dynamics CRM Windows app, but the Windows platform is about being open. And a few weeks ago we announced that Salesforce One will be coming to Windows and Windows Phone in the fall of 2014, letting your customers decide the solution that’s right for them.
Let’s never forget that the world has come to trust and rely upon Windows for its incomparable universe of desktop programs, household names like Citrix FileShare, MicroSymphony, Intuit Quicken, Epic Medical Records, Citrix Receiver, Adobe Photoshop, Citrix WebX, Evernote, Microsoft Lync, Microsoft Project, Microsoft Visio, Skype. And this point of differentiation is unmatched by either of the two competing ecosystems.
But what about the future of apps and programs? Developers today face an increasingly complex maze, a confusing maze of different APIs, programming languages, resolutions, policies, stores, commerce methods. There has not yet been a single way, an easy way, for a developer to create an app that works across the breadth of these form factors and use cases until now. At BUILD 2014, we introduced the Universal Windows App Platform, a way developers, you, can code once and deploy across multiple Windows form factors and multiple use cases. 
One set of APIs, one set of code, one set of policies. This is not only great for you; it’s great for your customers, too. With universal apps customers will be able to buy the app once and use it across all of their Windows devices. So let’s take a look at a Universal App in action.
Now the app we’re looking at is a retail management tool Microsoft is actively piloting with two large retail partners. You can see over on the demo podium three devices, the big, beautiful Dell all in one, the thin and light Lenovo 8-inch tablet, and the exquisite Lumia 1520. This universal app was built using Visual Studio, then it was deployed automatically and scaled for the various size devices. So from the back-office staff, on their all in ones, to the store associate on his tablet, to the store manager on her phone, all will have access to the same apps, the same information, and will be part of the same digital workflow.
Now, for your customer this means easier deployment, less training, and boosted productivity, but what about security? Today’s mobile and cloud-first world is blurring the edge of the network, is bringing new and potent cybersecurity threats and it’s often allowing business and personal data to reside, to be shared on the same device. Now, Windows defines enterprise grade. At the hardware level trusted boots protect Windows devices against low-level tampering at the boot. And it protects them against malware. So when Windows starts it starts and stays tamper-proof. And when you have Windows Pro and you combine it with a TPM chip you get BitLocker encryption. That protects your customer’s data.
So if a device is lost you don’t have to worry about the data being lost. And when a Windows device enters an enterprise that has System Center and Active Directory, whether that device is corporate owned, or BYOD, that device integrates seamlessly with the customer’s existing infrastructure, security and management policies.
Now, let’s bring Nick back to demonstrate just what we mean when we say enterprise grade.
 Thanks, Tony.
So Windows 4-inch Phone has always been a great choice for business. And thanks to the latest release we’ve added even more capability. Now, let’s replay a scenario where you go and buy a device from retail, a very common scenario today. With a few simple steps I enrolled this within my company. I added my user name and password and then the mobile device management server pushed down lots of stuff. It pushed down my corporate e-mail account, my corporate applications. It provisioned my Wi-Fi connection and my VPN, and it even enforced some policies.
So let me show you what’s happened to this phone as a consequence. I’m going to start with the Office Hub. Every Windows Phone comes with Office built in, no matter the price point. So that means I can stay productive wherever I am. And you’ll notice here in my Office Hub I have a number of different files. Those Excel files are all ones I downloaded from my corporate e-mail account. And at the bottom you can see something that I’ve taken from my personal OneDrive account, so a mix of those different files. And I’m going to come back to that a little bit later on.
Back to my start screen you’ll also notice some policies in action. I’m a big fan of Wordament. However in this case I’m afraid the company has disabled me from playing. So that’s not good enough for me. In fact, I want to un-enroll this device. So I’m just going to drop quickly into my settings, find that relationship and delete it. And now the phone is hard at work removing all of that corporate data, all those corporate applications, and all those policies.
So when it gets back to my start screen you’ll notice a bunch of black squares. That’s where all of those applications previously sat. If I go back into my Office Hub you’ll see there the files have been deleted directly from my Office Hub. And if I want to try and get 1,000 points and more in Wordament, good news, I can now play it again. So that’s what we mean by enterprise grade. 
 Thank you, Nick. And that’s what we mean by enterprise grade. And many of those improvements are improvements that you asked for. So today we’ve talked about Windows as the platform of choice, and together we’re in a unique position, a position to win in today’s mobile-first and cloud-first world. Now in the days ahead consider these three opportunities as examples to grow your business. First convert your remaining XP customers to a modern version of Windows. And when you’re done with that find some other XP users and convert them, too. Second, build an enterprise mobility practice. Enable your customers with compelling mobile solutions. Build this practice on the Windows platform, on Office and Office 365, and the enterprise mobility suite. And third, develop a compelling line-of-business app on the Windows platform.
Just take those three only as examples, because partnering with us, each of you will have new opportunities to reach upstream and down to create new hardware innovations, to imagine new applications and new cloud-based services to bring the right solution to the right place at the right time, appropriately provisioned, and expertly managed.
So at Microsoft we are committed. We are committed to listening to you, to moving faster, to putting the customer at the center of everything we do. We are wedded to this partnership and to our mutual success.
So in closing I want to thank you all for everything you’re doing, everything you’re doing to make Windows the platform of choice.
Thank you.
 Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome Microsoft Chief Executive Officer, Satya Nadella.  
 Thank you so much. It’s fantastic to be here at WPC. I hope you all have had a fantastic couple of days. Lots of great keynotes, sessions, networking, and good old-fashioned fun. 
Congratulations to all the German fans out there.  I know you got here early to watch the game, and hopefully you’re recovering.  
For me, it’s just such a pleasure to be at WPC. Having grown up all my life, it seems like, definitely all my adult life at Microsoft. I have marked the passing of time through all of these events. Partner events and developer conferences, pretty much I look at my 22 years and look back, both the birth of my kids as well as the shift in our platform. 
And that’s how I feel when I come here. You know, to come back to a familiar place and in this new role, for me, it’s an amazing privilege. 
So I wanted to start with a big thank you. I have worked in so many products throughout my 22 years at Microsoft. And there’s been one thing constant about this: They have pretty much all been partner led. That is at the core of what we have done as a company. We’ve always built products and experiences that lend themselves for this great partner model of ours and this great ecosystem. 
And, to me, saying a thank you from the bottom of my heart is how I think I want to start. It means a lot. What you have done in terms of the feedback you give us, the push you give us, that constant pursuit you have for customer success. Many times you’re critical of us. And that is what I believe has pushed us collectively to have all the success over the years. 
And it’s just not the business success. In fact, I can remember back to the launch of the first version of Windows NT to now how the stories of partners have inspired us. It’s the impact that partners have had that has inspired us. 
And so I want to talk about some of them today. The first person I want to reference is Juan Rodriguez, who is here with us.  And Juan’s story begins in Venezuela. He came to the United States at the age of 14. Started his first consulting company teaching DOS in the early part of 1990 during a recession. I remember that very distinctly because that’s when I entered the workforce. 
And since then, he’s had a tremendous amount of success. In fact, he’s got four thriving consulting businesses in the Los Angeles area doing everything from our server products to Office 365 and Azure. So you kept up with everything that we’ve thrown your way and thrived. 
But perhaps more than anything else, the thing that you’ve done that inspires me is what you’ve done to teach 30,000 individuals technology. That is impact. And, Juan, we thank you very much for that.  
So let’s move continents. Let’s go to Dan Scarfe of Dot Net Solutions in the U.K.  
Now, Dan started really early. He wrote his first computer program in BASIC — Bill will be proud of you — at 12. And he fell in love with app dev. I mean, who doesn’t? But he did. 
And since then, he’s been writing applications for customers across all the various platforms. And just last year, he’s turned his focus to writing applications which are Web experiences for a mobile-first world. And guess what? He’s had his best year ever. He’s had 300 percent growth building those solutions. That’s the kind of growth we all can see as we renew our own skills and our own opportunities. Thank you, Dan, for what you’ve done and what you’re doing.  
And the last partner I want to talk about is Hattam Salam from Dubai. He has a business in Egypt. He works in many parts of the Middle East. He’s an education partner of ours. Education, as you can imagine, if you want to have impact in society, education is the place because you really change outcomes of life. And he’s built this connected gateway solution which is getting deployed in many parts of the Middle East. In fact, in Qatar alone, from what I understand, you have 125,000 students and 15,000 teachers who are really changing how content and courseware is delivered, and more importantly, how the effectiveness is measured. And that means you’re changing outcomes. And that’s a SharePoint-based solution, now it’s available on Azure. 
But the thing that you’ve done is that pursuit of building solutions that can have that broad impact on society. And education as a vertical, as an industry, as a part of an economy is something that I think we as an ecosystem have done great work. And, in fact, if anything, we get to do more going forward. So thank you for that, Hattam, and congratulations.
I know there are many, many more stories. Many, many more inspirational journeys that are represented here today. And all of that is what I think makes this ecosystem what it is. 
So that’s the inspiration. That’s the confidence. That’s the push with which we move forward to this mobile-first, cloud-first world. 
I’ve talked about this in a couple different places. In fact, you know, living amongst 30,000 computer scientists at Microsoft, you always get a mail once a day where somebody says, “Hey, do you have a problem with ordinal numbers? How can two things be first? Can’t you sort?” 
And then you kind of look at it and say, “Yeah, this is one of those places where the sorting algorithm doesn’t work.” Because it is true that without the cloud, there is going to be no mobile experience. It’s not about one device, it’s about mobility. The cloud orchestrates it, but without mobile end points, be they sensors or mobile devices, you’re not going to have the impact in the world and people’s lives. 
So you have to think about this next generation of computing as mobile-first, cloud-first. And our goal, simply put, is to thrive in it as an ecosystem. It’s a tremendous opportunity. We see it today. There are going to be over 3 billion people with connected devices. There’s going to be over 200 billion sensors out there. The amount of application development that spans all of that computing is going to explode. They’re going to both generate tons and tons of zettabytes of data, they’re also going to consume and reason over that large data. 
All of this, at the end of the day, results in an explosion in spend and a shift in spend. As a percentage of GDP, IT spend is on a secular increase. I mean, think about it. That’s one of the things that makes being in this industry real fun, because there is not a sector of an economy, a vertical industry, a person’s life where software and the devices that are powered by software are not touching. That’s our opportunity. 
But the real question that needs to be asked, as well as answered, is: What is it that we can do as an ecosystem that is unique, that is impactful? And, to me, the answer is clear. We are the company and the ecosystem that will build productivity experiences and platforms for the mobile-first, cloud-first world. We are the company and the ecosystem that is going to reinvent productivity for this new generation. We’re going to empower every individual and every organization to do more and achieve more. That’s our singular mission. That is something that’s unique to us. That’s in our core, that’s in our soul, and that’s what we’re going to go do. 
Think about it. In all this abundance of computing power, what is scarce? It’s human attention, it’s time. For us to reinvent productivity so that every individual on the planet can get more out of every moment of their lives is a great mission. That is what we need to go solve. That is where we get to add value. 
The other place with all this abundance of applications, data, devices, also comes complexity. We are the company, we are the ecosystem that can harmonize the various interests of individual users and people, IT, and developers. Bringing those interests together so that people and organizations can achieve more and do more is something that, again, we can do. That’s the platform sensibility that we’ve always had, and we’re going to have to bring that to this world of mobile-first, cloud-first. 
And to go after this, we’re going to do one thing: We’re going to get very focused on building on these digital work and life experiences, this next generation of productivity broadly defined. And everything else we do supports it. We will build platforms in the cloud for it, we’ll build platforms on the device for it. We will make sure our experiences are pervasive and ubiquitous. We will make sure that it’s possible for you to be able to build the solutions across the various industries. That is what we’re going to do. It’s not multiple strategies. It’s not multiple things of focus. It’s one core that represents the best of what we have and what we represent, but more importantly, the boldness with which we can go forward in redefining it. 
So let’s talk a little bit about each one of these. When it comes to digital work and life experiences, the thing that we’re going to do is start by building great experiences individually. That means we’re going to have fantastic e-mail, great file sharing, great communication and collaboration. So these are all the brands that you know and love. There’s Skype, there’s Outlook, there’s OneDrive. But it’s just not about any one of these applications. It’s not the application silos themselves. We are building an operating system for human activity across all of their daily lives, across all of their devices. That is what the future of Office, the future of Dynamics represents for us. 
We’re building out that digital infrastructure that ties together people, their activities, their relationships to all of the artifacts of their life, be they photos or documents at work. That is what digital work and life experiences means. 
We’re going to do the best job of being able to enable dual use. This entire notion that somehow I’ll buy my device for consumption and personal use and then I’ll give up that device for work and take another device just doesn’t work. We know that. And simply saying even just BYOD is not good enough. We’ve got to harmonize this dual usage. We absolutely have to be the best in the world when it comes to taking Skype and Lync, OneDrive and OneDrive for Business, Outlook and Exchange, and every one of these experiences and the shell and the operating systems in Windows all have to be built to excel for this dual use. And that’s what will drive productivity. 
If you think about it, at the end of the day, it’s not just about I want to be productive, not just at work, productivity is not this niche. In fact, it’s the most secular, broadest category of computing. I want to get more out of my time. I want to be reminded when I come home — because of the geo-fence reminders in Cortana — of what it is that I should tell my daughter, because it knows that tomorrow is a recital for her. 
It’s the ability for us to be able to reason over all of your data in a personal way and to give you back that moment and create those moments of productivity. 
We are going to have our experiences on all platforms. That means every home screen out there. Our aspiration is to have one or many Microsoft icons, Microsoft digital experiences. They’re all entry points for us as an ecosystem. So that means we get to have an opportunity to be able to have anyone entering from any device into our ecosystem. That’s our promise with which we’ll move forward. 
So let’s talk a little bit about our cloud operating system. We have an amazing opportunity ahead here. We’re the only company that’s going to build that enterprise-grade infrastructure that meets the realities of the geopolitics of the world, the regulatory regimes of the world, and yet give them the hyper-scale economics. So that means we are the company that can provide the datacenter back plane for all computing needs of a complex enterprise. Private cloud, public cloud, and hybrid cloud. 
Some of the things that you saw in earlier keynotes, especially when it comes to how you can take your current virtual machine estate, VMware or Hyper-V, and yet get disaster recovery from Azure. How you can tier your storage with something like StorSimple. Those are pretty unique things. That is, in fact, adding value to your IT dollars spent today, as opposed to just trying to rip and replace an entire architecture. 
That notion of providing that one infrastructure back plane is, I believe, one of the biggest benefits that this ecosystem can drive in the marketplace. 
We’re also going to have the most comprehensive end-user infrastructure. So this is spanning device management, identity management and data security. I can’t be more excited about Enterprise Mobility Suite. It’s a fantastic piece of technology. It’s got lots of road map ahead. But it’s the place where we will shine because the complexity that exists for the IT, as there is more bring my own device, as there is more adoption of SaaS applications, as there’s more cybersecurity incidents in your organization, you need this control plane. 
And what we have done there by bringing one architecture across identity management, device management, and data security makes it very powerful to manage this world of multiple device platforms and multiple SaaS applications. 
And when it comes to big data, we’re going to have a very rich big data platform out there. It’s going to be comprehensive. We’re going to have all of the storage capabilities for SQL and NoSQL. We’re going to have all of the processing capabilities on top of it from screen processing to even machine learning. But the place where we are going to truly shine is going to be around insights. 
At the end of the day, any organization that wants to thrive with data needs to provide for a culture of data. And that’s not going to happen if you don’t have those end-user analysis and visualization tools. You know, what is a better tool than Excel to start with? So we’re taking everything that we’re doing around Power View, PowerPivot, and even Power Q&A, which is now a natural language way of being able to ask questions and get answers, and integrating it into the tools that people use on a daily basis, be it Excel or SharePoint. And that’s the place where we as an ecosystem can truly help organizations be more productive because of a data culture that we’ve enabled, not just big data. 
The last thing that I want to talk about when it comes to the Cloud OS is perhaps my favorite, because I grew up with this, is modern application development. 
First of all, we have built out everything that we do even in our digital work and life experiences such that it’s a developer surface area. So that means when you have contacts in Exchange, when you have your calendar in Exchange, when you have SharePoint lists, even the data in OneNote, all that are APIs, all that is exposed as APIs. So you can build solutions using it. 
That is where our developer platform starts. In fact, the most strategic developer surface area for us is Office 365. Obviously, that even gets to Dynamics. And then around it, we’ve built this very rich cloud infrastructure in Azure. We have these rich higher-level services for handling mobile back ends, Web back ends, doing media, doing machine learning and advanced analytics, all forms of data storage and processing. That gives you more capabilities as a developer. 
But at the container level or the virtual machine level, we have really made sure that it’s a very open platform. It’s not just about .NET and Windows, which we obviously do a great job of. Around 15 percent of Azure today has Linux and various packages of Linux. And so that means we have the most open infrastructure for any kind of solution. So we want to thrive in this heterogeneous world when it comes to the public cloud. And that’s the opportunity for us when it comes to application development. 
But we don’t stop there. We have done our best work in building out the tool chain. What we’ve done in terms of the productivity of the developer — because think about it, what drives your profitability, your ability to do more, is the productivity of your own developers and your own employees. And with Visual Studio Online and TFS, we’ve taken what is source code management, build, project management, the entire dev/ops process, and modernized it, made it easy. Really plumbed it through all the way into the IDE of Visual Studio. 
That kind of richness is what will help you drive your business forward, take on more, take on more ambitious projects. And so I’m pretty excited about what we can do with the Cloud OS together. 
The next thing I want to talk about is Windows. Windows and our hardware, our first-party hardware. The goal for us is to have them take our digital work/life experiences and have them shine. 
This means the shell, what we do with our privacy policies, what we do with inking, what we do with our first-party hardware when it comes to touch, when it comes to pen, all of those things are optimized for this productivity experience. That’s where we will be unique. 
We will, of course, have all the consumptive experiences. You will have Pandora, you will have video, you will have all of the places where you can enjoy the consumptive experiences, but we will shine in these productivity experiences. That’s what the role of Windows is and the role of our first-party hardware. 
I want to be very clear, the goal with our first-party hardware is to create categories and create markets. But we want to stimulate demand for the entire ecosystem. Tony Prophet showed you the lineup even going back to school and the holiday season. It’s a fantastic lineup. We want to be able to show the way for that. 
The uniqueness of Windows comes because of what we put into the experience of it across all sizes. That consistency you saw is going to matter even more. Not just because you can, in fact, have one application with consistent experiences across different screen sizes. It is also because, increasingly, we’re going to live in a world where a single application is, in fact, going to be distributed across multiple of our devices. And as that happens, you want that consistency. 
You don’t just want that consistency in terms of the end-user experience, you want even that consistency for the IT experience, that control plane to manage security. You want that from a developer standpoint. This notion of universal Windows apps is a very powerful concept because we’re now aggregating the 300-plus-million-socket run rate of Windows into one opportunity for our developers. 
That, to me, is what makes Windows unique. And that’s what we’re going to get focused on. That’s what we’re going to drive on a constant basis. 
We’re also going to stay on the forefront of making Windows stand out as the most-personal computing experience. It first means we’re going to stay in the forefront of innovations around input/output: touch, gestures, speech, and many more. We’re at the threshold, in fact, with the Windows Phone that I have today, I am speaking to it a lot more than I have ever spoken to Windows. And that’s just going to keep increasing. 
So we will bring these more human ways to interface with technology. And that’s the place where what Microsoft Research has done and what the Windows team has done is pretty innovative. In fact, we learn from things that we’ve done in Xbox and Kinect, and now they’re making their way in a mainstream way into the Windows experience. 
But it’s not just about the technology. We’re going to go at this knowing fully well that users are going to care, and care increasingly more, about their data and their privacy and being in control of it. We want Windows to stand for that user-controlled privacy. We want it to shine when it comes to be able to really have the user in control of experiences like Cortana, where you really need to be able to trust this agent that it’s working only on your behalf, only when you give it permission. That, to me, matters, and will matter a lot more to all our customers and all our users. 
So let’s pull this all together. Let’s look at what we can do in terms of reinventing productivity and building platforms in this mobile-first, cloud-first world. Think about what we can do to transform organizations, starting with individuals. What Cortana can do for you personally both in your life and at work? What Outlook or OneDrive or OneNote can do for you? 
But it’s not just about the individual. We all live in groups both at work and outside, it’s the family, it’s the soccer team, it’s my work group. You want to be able to have the tools that enable you to communicate, collaborate, share. Things that we do with Skype, Lync, SharePoint, all available to you for that kind of collaboration. 
And we don’t stop even at the team, but it’s about business process. Because, really, if you look at your daily life, you have things that you do in your life, there are things that you do with your work groups, there are things that you do in terms of advancing some business process. And we want to be able to bring all of that together and harmonize all of that together. And to do that, we want to have that consistency of our IT experience, the consistency of the developer experience. That’s what we as an ecosystem can do for any customer of ours, any individual customer or an organizational customer. 
So I want to show you some of this. I thought a lot about, you know, there are a lot of things in our labs that are advanced technologies. And since when you’re doing the vision thing, you can get to choose anything that’s far out and talk about it. 
But I chose to sort of think about things that are pretty near term, but are transformational in terms of what we can do for our customers. 
So I wanted to invite up on stage Steve Clayton, who is a colleague of mine, to help me with some of these demos. And we want to start off, first, by talking about this phenomenon of Internet of Things. We all know, we talked about the fact that there are going to be 200-plus billion sensors. And when you really think about it, it’s really the Internet of Your Things, right? 
So when you’re talking to a customer, they have these things in the field. And for the first time now, in a cost-effective way, they can put compute on them and collect data back from them so that you can reason over it. 
Now, that all sounds great, but what’s the purpose? The purpose is, of course, business model transformation. Think about what an elevator company now can do when you have the ability to have real-time access to the status of all the elevators in the field that you have and the service contracts, the insurance on those service contracts that you can write. 
It can be transformative to any customer of ours in terms of the business model. And that is something that now we enable by bringing together Windows Embedded solutions, our Intelligent Systems Service in Azure, which allows you to collect that data and put it into and process it in real time. 
And then we have this Azure Machine Learning Service, which is an amazing service which I think previewed at this conference. And that service allows you now to do advanced predictive analytics because we all need these data scientists, but you also want to have the power of what we have when we do speech recognition or voice or vision or even Bing, and take all that sophistication for applied ML and make it available for every one of the data scientists that’s in your organization so that they can do these advanced predictive analytics. 
So to show you some of this in action, Steve, why don’t you take it away? 
 Sure. Good morning, Satya. So we’re going to start inside of ThyssenKrupp’s global asset monitoring system. So the dashboard you see here has been built by ThyssenKrupp, with their partner, CGI. 
Now, ThyssenKrupp is a global elevator company that has 1.1 million elevator assets around the world. And what anybody inside of their organization can see from this dashboard is a real-time view of what’s going on across that landscape of assets. So this literally is real-time data coming from sensors inside of elevators that’s been pulled into the Azure Intelligent Systems Service, and then populated into the dashboard. 
So we have an orange circle up here, an orange traffic light in the Pacific Northwest. We’re going to drill into this particular one. And you can see as I scroll down on the map into this region, the data is changing in real time beneath us. 
So the alert that we have is right down here in the Virginia Mason Athletic Center. The Virginia Mason Athletic Center, it turns out, is the training facility for the world champion Seattle Seahawks. Seahawk fans?  That’s always a crowd pleaser. 
And what you can see on the dashboard now is that we have a view into the schematics of the layout of that building, we have the real-time information of the elevators moving and in action. All of this coming from sensors into the Azure Intelligent Systems Service. 
As I scroll down a little further, we can see some more details of what type of elevator, where the elevator’s located. So we have some freight elevators, passenger elevators. 
The thing I’m really interested in is this predictive health of 70 percent. And you talk about machine learning, and this is really where we get to kind of the gold mine of this data, if you like. 
So we’ll drill into that elevator we want to take a look at. It’s the field access elevator that has a predictive health that we want to take a look at. 
 This is a solution that CGI built. 
 Absolutely. CGI built this in partnership with ThyssenKrupp. Anybody inside of the organization is now able to get. Again, that kind of real data culture that we talked about, be able to access information in real time. 
So we can see the type of elevator. This one is a freight elevator. We can see the model. We can also see some of the real-time data around the landing spaces. So we can see this elevator is being called most frequently from the ground floor, as you might expect. But also real details, sensor-level details. What’s the average door-close time? What’s the average door-open time? All the types of things that move their business from being in reactive maintenance mode into proactive. And that’s, ultimately, where they’re trying to drive their business into being much more proactive. 
But two things I’m really interested in on this particular part of the monitoring system is that predictive health of 70 percent. And then beneath that, you’ll see that there’s a critical alert that’s coming from Azure Machine Learning. 
Now, the predictive health arises from taking all of the previous data of events and issues that have happened with the elevators, and then running a machine learning model so that we can start to learn, well, why did that event happen? 
So we do two things with machine learning. We reason over the data to find out why did something happen in the past, and then we can use that same data to predict, well, when might that happen again in the future? 
So we’ll move over into the Azure Machine Learning Workspace, into our machine learning workspace here. And you can see the model that we’ve run. So we’ve taken data at the top, it’s a CSB file, feeding it into something called a multiclass decision jungle. Inside of the machine learning workspace, we’ve got world-class algorithms, the type of algorithms that are being used inside of Cortana, inside of Bing, so we can start to apply reason and learning on top of this data. 
And then we train the model and we score the model. Ultimately, what that results in, if we visualize the output of this model, what this is telling us is that it’s able to predict by using machine learning, looking at past data, we can predict with 75-percent accuracy. 
 And this is breakthrough stuff. Because think about it, in fact, the first time I saw this kind of tool, I was working in Bing engineering and we needed to drive productivity of our own relevance and data science. And so we built all this tooling to do applied machine learning at scale. And the vision that we’ve had is how do we take all of that and make it available? Because now data science is not just for the consumer Internet company. Data science and the tooling around it is for every industrial Internet application. And we have that unique capability of taking what we learned in a very different segment and applying it now through the partner ecosystem to pretty much every industry vertical with advanced analytics capabilities. 
 That’s right. And where that really pays off at ThyssenKrupp is what you see on the dashboard right now. 
So at the moment, we have a predictive maintenance warning. We have a schedule of when we’re planning to do maintenance on those elevators. So, currently, planning to do the scheduled maintenance on the 24th of the month, but by taking that machine learning, by doing predictive analytics, we’re able to say, actually, we need to send an engineer out three days earlier to carry out that maintenance, because we can predict with 75-percent accuracy that an issue is going to arise. 
So that’s where it really starts to change dramatically ThyssenKrupp’s business, moves them into this proactive maintenance mode, and out of the reactive maintenance mode. 
 Great. Now, you know, that gives you a flavor for what kind of an application you can build.  
For an opportunity like Internet of Things, because I think that this is one of those opportunities over the next 10 years, will play out in a pretty big way. You can think of this as the new class of tier-one applications that are going to be born in the cloud, where people are going to rendezvous their data from their field devices, reason over it, and the business model that you can have, those models that got created, you now have a continuous model of upgrading and improving that model. 
So the business model, you’re not just building a project and leaving; your project is a project that continuously drives business transformation because you can expose that model as a set of APIs for the various applications that use it. 
But one of the other things that we also see is there are these new classes of tier-one applications, we also see this explosion of mobile apps. You are seeing that now in every enterprise. 
So we want to enable you, especially on the edges, where a business unit or even an end user wants to build an application rapidly. Think about even the elevator company scenario. Say you want to spin up a field service app that’s very specific for a particular role in a particular business process scenario. You want to have access to, in fact, all the APIs in your SaaS application. So you want all the APIs with data inside of Dynamics, inside of Office 365, inside of this IOT application you built. You want to have access to it. And you want to be able to churn out these apps, which are very task specific at a pretty rapid rate. 
And that opportunity is something that we want to enable. So we built a tool called Siena, which is available in the apps store for Windows today. And our vision with this tool is to bring this next generation of rapid application development for the mobile-first, cloud-first world, where you’re able to take SaaS applications that you built as well as customer uses and the data behind them and convert them into apps that end users themselves can build. So why don’t you show us Siena? 
 Sure. So we’re going to carry that scenario forward. We’re going to build an application that’s our field service engineer. We want to get rid of these things and start to have more of these things out in the field, so mobile devices, mobile applications that are cloud-first, mobile-first applications. 
So I’m going to start inside of Project Siena. And very quickly with my PowerPoint skills and my Excel skills, build an application. 
I’m going to connect out to a data source. I’ve got multiple different data sources here. Data sources that are out on the Web, things like Facebook, things like SharePoint inside of the organization, I’ve also got applications, as you would expect, like Dynamics, Coursera, so a whole set of different back-end data interfaces I can connect to. 
My data is set at the moment inside of Azure, my Azure Mobile Services. So I’m going to select to import my data. That imports from the cloud, and I’ve got my actions, my sensors and my jobs. So I’ll give it a second to import. 
OK, so I’ve got actions that I’m going to carry out, I’ve got sensors, and I’ve got jobs. 
Let me just make sure that we’ve got our data fully imported, and then we’ll start to build our applications. This is my first screen. So I simply click over. I’m going to say I want to make a connection to Office 365. 
So this is something that’s coming in the next preview of Siena, the ability to connect directly into Office 365 and build applications on top of that rich platform. 
So in Office 365, I’m going to add my meetings. This is my shared calendar. It’s the database of jobs that my engineers are going to go out into the field and carry out. 
We’ll add in a second screen, and then I’m going to create the connection from this first screen over to the second screen. So my engineers select their job, and we’ll do our first run of the application. It’s a very, very simple application. But in a minute, I’ve built the rudimentary basis of my application. 
So I click from a job, take me to the second screen. But now let’s start filling out the capability on that second screen. And that’s where we get to replace the clipboard and we get to replace the camera that my field engineer is currently using. 
I’m going to drop a control onto the page, and that control has the camera. It has a couple of buttons that we’re going to have on the side, we’re just going to shift these around, make this a little bit more usable. You drag these out to the edge, make them slightly larger, because these are going to be the buttons that my engineer uses on that mobile device. 
And then we’re going to start to wire our application up to the data that we have on the back end. So what I’d like to do first is to make sure that the job that I’m about to take a photo of is the one that the engineer has selected. So simple Excel statements. 
 This is just the exact Excel syntax. So if you can build an Excel spreadsheet, you can build this app. 
 Exactly. So you can see now, if I go back and run my application, click on job 1022, it appears on the screen below, 1023, it appears on the screen below. We’ve done that first element of wiring up our application. 
Let’s go back to screen two and continue building out the app. So I want to connect these, wire these up to my data. So this is going to be the actions that my engineers carry out. So they’re going to replace things, move things, align things. And then they’re going to perform those actions on a set of sensors. So we wire up to a set of sensors. 
And we’re now getting very close to having our finished application. A couple more things I’ll just need to add in. I want my engineers to know which type of elevator that they’re working on. So we’ll make a connection, again, back into our back end. So I’m going to do a simple look-up statement. We’re going to look up jobs where the job ID is equal to — so for anybody who’s kind of familiar with Excel, you’re obviously familiar with this type of stuff. 
So simple package select. So now I’ve got my Sky Shuttle elevator selected up there. We’ll run the application again. So if I click on a particular job, so I’ve got 1022 is the Sky Shuttle 9000. The final piece is it would be really nice if my sensors on the right-hand side of the screen were mapped to the particular elevator that we’ve selected. 
So we’ll do one final piece of syntax and then we’ll run our application. So in this one, we want to filter the sensors. Based on the package that’s currently selected up there in the top left of our screen. So this one is to be equal to — I think it was label four that we had up there. And the text that we have in label four. You can see that I’m not really a developer, truly. 
OK, so now if I finally run the application, I’m going to select job 1022. I’ve got to set the sensors on the right-hand side, 1024, a different set of sensors. 
So let’s finish this job. And we’ll take some photos. So imagine I’m out there doing my elevator inspection. So that’s my elevator. I’m going to align the sensors and the control panel. Click on save, and that gets saved back into my back end. So in a short space of time, built an application for those mobile field engineers.  
 Again, this is not about building a disconnected RAD tool. Think about the entirety of your own practice and your own business model. You build these great applications. Think of them as tier-one applications. You expose them as a set of APIs and platform capabilities. Then you can enable the entire organization that you’re working with, the end users, the business units, to in fact build more applications on the edge using those APIs in combination with other SaaS APIs. That’s the future. That’s the kind of platform sensibility that we’ve had as an ecosystem always, and we get to do that again in this mobile-first world. 
So that’s pretty exciting for us. And we’re in the early days in the feedback. In fact, Fujitsu has taken this product and really built out an entire service line where they now think about thousands of apps being built, not just one app or one engagement. And that’s, I think, a way forward for many of us. 
The next thing we want to talk about is we want to move from more the application development to the kind of productivity tools that can be transformative inside the organization. 
One of the things that you really need to break through the silos of the various applications and the data contained within them is search, because search is beautiful. If you know what you’re looking for, you type in the question, especially on the Web, it goes to the Web graph, you get back your 10 blue links, and it’s great. 
And we’ve taken that and really advanced it with things like Power BI now where you can ask natural language queries, even inside of an organization on all your data. 
But still, search starts with the assumption that you know what you’re looking for. There needs to be a better way because the ambient intelligence that’s there inside of the organization doesn’t surface, the knowledge doesn’t surface or is not discoverable. 
So we built this Delve product to really enable organizations to become true knowledge organizations because they can now, every individual in their organization has the power to discover information and be more productive. So we want to show you a little bit of Delve. 
 So Delve really is a great, great example of this notion that we talked about, ambient intelligence, alongside Cortana. 
So what you see on my dashboard here now inside of Delve when I come into the office in the morning, whether it’s on a PC or a mobile device, this is what I get to see, the information that matters to me in a beautiful way, laid out contextually for me. So nothing on this page is irrelevant to me. And this is a completely different world to 10 blue links. Information is starting to find me. There’s intelligence build into the system. We start to apply machine learning again, so everything on this page literally is relevant to me. 
But it’s built on top of this thing called the Office Graph. We talked about the Office Graph back at the SharePoint Conference. And what the Office Graph does is it brings together people, conversations and content in a truly beautiful way. 
So we take a look at some of the things that we can do with Delve that really start to bring it to life, it’s just a fantastic information worker tool that is that ambient intelligence. 
I can do things like look at the information that’s being presented to me. So what happens here is the Office Graph knows which meetings I’ve been in. So it goes into my calendar. It can understand which meetings I’ve been in, what content was presented. So no longer do I need to search for that information across file shares, SharePoint, locations in the company. It simply just finds me because it’s relevant to me. 
I can do other interesting things. Like, say, what documents are trending around me? The Office Graph knows who I work with, it knows what documents those people are working with. And it says, “Hey, Steve, here’s a bunch of documents that your friends, your colleagues, your co-workers are working on that may be interesting to you.” 
 And just think of this like a Facebook news feed, except it’s for the Office Graph, not your social graph. 
 And I can search across anything inside of Delve. So as I start to type in “Bill” — now, there are many Bills inside of our organization. But it immediately knows the Bill I work with, and scopes down to Bill Burr. So if I click on Bill Burr, then I get what you might expect, an organizational, hierarchical view. I can see who Bill’s manager is, I can see who we share a manager with, and who Bill’s direct reports are. 
But I can also see some other very interesting things. Activity views. Views that you would never get normally inside of the organization. And so I can identify who Bill works with and that I might want to work with. I can identify who we both work with. So I can start to understand these implicit connections inside of the organization that previously I might not have been able to see because of the power of Delve and the power of that Office Graph. 
 And especially when you think about in a multidevice world, we use these different devices for different things. On the phone, I may want to use Delve to just keep up with what’s happening. On my notebook at work, I do the work. That notion of having a device family and these experiences is how we think productivity will fundamentally change. 
Now, the one last thing we want to show you is something that I would say we as an industry have been dreaming about and have been working at ever since, perhaps, the Second World War when the first code-breaking technology and great software was used to do that. 
And since then, there has been this continuous march on technologies like machine translation. And now in recent times, we’ve been able to put together what have been three distinct streams of research: machine translation, speech recognition and speech synthesis. It’s not just simply daisy-chaining them, but building them together into this one deep neural net that has magical properties. 
And the first magical property that we’re going to use it for is to, perhaps, solve one of the oldest challenges that we as human beings have had, which is: How do we cross the language barrier? We want to be provide in Skype a translate service that allows you to speak two different languages, and yet, communicate without any friction in real time. That’s the dream of Skype Translate.  
And now, this will be the first time we’ll be testing it in an acoustic bottle like this building. And we will see if it works. Fingers crossed. Go for it. 
 OK. So I actually want to tell you a little story before we get into this demo, because the first time I saw this technology, I knew it was going to change my life. I knew it was going to change my family’s life. 
So I moved to Seattle about four years ago, as you know. I have two small children. 
 And people didn’t understand your English? 
 Well, they kind of understand my English. I’m getting there, slowly but surely, you know?  
So I moved to Seattle. All of my family is back in the U.K. And my mother-in-law is Chinese. And I’ve known my mother-in-law for 25 years. And I’ve exchanged about six words with her because I don’t speak Chinese, and she doesn’t speak English. 
But perhaps more importantly, you know, my mother-in-law is over 80. 
 For some, that would be a virtue, I think.  
 This is not scripted.  
 I just thought of it.
 So the thing I’m really interested in is having my two small children, so I have a two-year-old and a five-year-old. And wouldn’t it be wonderful if in the lifetime of my mother-in-law, of their grandmother, that they would be able to have a conversation with her in the language — wouldn’t it be wonderful if we didn’t have flies around?  
Wouldn’t it be wonderful if those two small children could sit there in front of the TV and be able to have a conversation in real time in their language, and for my mother-in-law to have a conversation in her language? 
So we’re going to try and see that in action. I’m expecting a call any moment now from a friend of mine, Melanie. Melanie is German. And she has been celebrating for the last few days, as you can imagine. So any second now I’m expecting a call from Melanie. And here she is.
Good afternoon, Melanie, how are you?
 Well, how is it friends?  
 Sorry, Melanie, say that again. 
  I am well. How are you doing?  
 Very well, thank you. I am here at the Worldwide Partner Conference with 16,000 partners and our CEO on the big stage. So no pressure.  
 Have seen the World Cup. 
 Yes, I did see the World Cup, congratulations. 
 I could not be happier, I celebrated the whole night. In a single game, Germany has scored more goals than England in the last two events together. 
 Very funny, Melanie, I’m more of a cricket fan.  
  What are you doing after the event? 
 This afternoon, I fly back to Seattle. Then on Thursday I fly to New York, followed by Miami, then back to Seattle. And at the end of July, I’m going to fly to the U.K. to see my friends and family in London. 
  Wow, that sounds like a packed calendar. Good journey. 
 Thanks, Melanie. Goodbye. 
 Thank you, goodnight. 
 Thank you so much.  
 So we want to take technology like that, in fact, this Skype Translate itself we hope to be in preview by the end of the year. But it’s the kind of work that we get to do when we obsess about how we can change individual lives and organizations. Because think about Skype Translate applied to customer service. Think about Skype Translate applied in so many other contexts where human communication can be fundamentally transformed. 
So that entire set of demos, hopefully, gave you a feel for what we as a partner ecosystem can do for our customers. That’s really what is in front of us. For you to take advantage of what we’ve done, build on us, extend, push us. And let’s collectively serve our customers to be able to transform their businesses and their lives. That’s the opportunity ahead of us. 
And, of course, any opportunity which requires us to build new skills, which requires us to fundamentally change our approach, business model, or otherwise, is only going to happen if we are successful in renewing our culture. We’re 39 years old as a company. As I said, we have been partner led, so that means many of you have been with us through that entire 39-year journey. 
And we’re here because we were successful not only in being able to imagine the turn, the next platform, but also because we changed. We changed the core of who we are in terms of our organization and how we work and our value to our customers. That’s the hardest part, really, the technology stuff is the simpler thing. And we all know that, but we need to move forward with the boldness that we can change our culture. It’s not even this one-time change, it’s this process of continuous renewal that we have to have that commitment to succeed — succeed with a customer. 
And that’s really what the Microsoft journey is. That’s where I spend most of my time. That’s where I obsess about how can we enable the employees at Microsoft to be able to bring their A game, do their best work, find deeper meaning in what they do. And that’s the journey ahead for us. And it’s a continuous journey, and it’s not an episodic journey. 
And so I want to end with this quote of another German philosopher that I used in the last earnings call of ours about showing courage in the face of reality with any opportunity you need to. But as I thought about it, the real thing that we get to do because of the success we’ve had is to go after the opportunity ahead boldly. Both in terms of what we build, the skills and technology and business model, but also in terms of that intrinsic culture that’s going to propel us forward. 
That’s why I believe the right way to think about it is showing that courage in the face of opportunity. Thank you so very much. Have a great WPC.  
 Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome back Phil Sorgen. 
 All right, nothing like getting the day started with some great blues. I have to thank Buddy Guy and Quinn Sullivan. What an amazing performance again to start the vision keynote. That’s two days in a row.
And I have to say on behalf of all the Microsoft people here, we’ve so appreciated the connection the first two days of this conference, and we still have a lot more time to connect.
So welcome back, everyone. We have a great morning planned for you. We’ll talk about selling in a modern world. We’ll talk about winning the next billion customers on Windows together. And then something we’ve all been waiting for, Satya Nadella will take the stage and talk about his vision for the future of Microsoft and your place beside us.
But before we jump into that, I just want to take a few minutes to frame how I think about investments broadly in our partnership. These reflect the promise we make to you every day, and how we can help your business grow today and tomorrow.
I view this as the four pillars that represent the full portfolio of what Microsoft can offer our partners.
The first pillar is we develop and deliver world-class products and services. 
The second pillar is creating markets that you can sell in.
The third is enabling your business success.
And the fourth is our focus on the last mile of sales and marketing execution with you.
My team and I work across the company to drive balanced execution across these pillars, and I want to take a little while to walk through each one of them, just providing you a few examples of what you can expect.
The first way we invest in partners is just fundamental and core to our partnership. We work hard to deliver world-class products and services that our customers want and that you can build a successful business around.
It’s pretty simple why I start with this one. If we stop creating world-class products that our customers want and that you can build a business around, the next three pillars don’t matter. We know our ability to innovate will determine our success, and it’s why we invest over $10 billion in R&D every year.
And you can see these investments pay off. FY14 was our biggest innovation year ever, and this year is on the same pace.
But we know innovation alone is not enough. Our route to market is through you, and you need business opportunities that fit your business models, opportunities to grow your success with Microsoft. So to ensure that there are great opportunities, we’re focused on making sure that the partner opportunity is embedded in every product and service we bring to market. In the last year, we’ve introduced dozens of programs, business models and licensing models designed to drive your growth. You heard about five of them on Monday alone.
Across the company we’re listening to your feedback and working hard to bring more opportunities to you faster. And while it’s been a year of good progress, we will continue to accelerate our efforts in this area.
Now, the second way we invest in you is by creating markets. We know your cost of sale goes down when your customers have a preference for Microsoft products. 
Now, we have the global reach to create awareness broadly for the products and services that you’re selling, but we need to go beyond awareness. We address this by investing in platforms and campaigns to drive your growth.
Now, I want to highlight just one example of a campaign we’re bringing into market this fiscal year. This is the Modern Biz Demand Generation campaign. It’s a multimillion-dollar global campaign featuring cross-product solutions targeted at the small and midsized business space. For those of you that focus on that customer segment, you know this is a high-growth area where we’re seeing rapid cloud adoption. This particular campaign goes into market on August 1st.
But beyond our enthusiasm and excitement about the opportunity that this campaign means for you and for us, I want to call your attention to the lower left corner of the slide. The Modern Biz campaign has a strong partner call to action, as do many of the other campaigns across segments that we’ll be driving this fiscal year. And leads generated through these campaigns will be routed to Pinpoint and the local teams and on to our partners, which brings me to our next investment, which is Pinpoint.
For those of you not familiar with Pinpoint, it’s a marketplace where customers can go find partners who can help them. 
But I’m excited to announce an important new release of Pinpoint that’s coming to market in September. This new release will be better for customers trying to find the right partner, and better for each of you. 
The new site will be modern and easy to navigate, but more importantly we’ve worked a lot on search relevance, which leads to better, higher quality referrals for you. And those referrals will be integrated into a new lead management dashboard, so you can track your progress.
We are also introducing a new seller dashboard to help you with your sales.
So I encourage you to go out to Pinpoint and make sure your profile is current with your qualifications and your differentiated value. And if you’d like to get a look of this new site before it’s released in September, stop by the MPN booth in the expo center.
Now, the last area I want to cover in creating markets is where we pull together our global reach and your unique value. And this is a platform we call a Partner Marketing Center. And what you can get out of this Partner Marketing Center is branded and customizable demand generation and marketing materials that help you generate more business.
Now, many of you use the Partner Marketing Center today. As a matter of fact, we’ve had over 275,000 assets downloaded in just the last year, and that number is accelerating.
Well, what’s new about the Partner Marketing Center is now it’s fully integrated into MPN, and we’ve now expanded it to 26 languages and 52 locations around the world, and we’re going to continue to expand it further for your benefit.
And if I take you back to the Modern Business Campaign that I just mentioned that we’re putting in market, that’s an example of an asset that will be in the Partner Marketing Center so you can use it as well, along with many other campaigns, to help lower your cost of sales and generate more business.
Now, for the next pillar I consider the Microsoft Partner Network at the very center of the investments we make to enable your business. 
Now, beyond the benefits like support, internal use rights, and training and readiness, we’re listening to you and making sure that we deliver the kinds of tools that help you work through the pace of change that’s happening in this industry today.
This year, we’re doing a lot more to help you keep pace with the changing marketplace that we all see. 
So to give you an example of how we can help in this area, let me take you back 12 months. Last year, on this stage we showed you why cloud has proven to be a compelling and profitable model for partners who invest. We showed you that partners who primarily sell in the cloud are growing 2.4 times faster. They’re delivering 30 percent more revenue per employee, and they’re acquiring new customers at a rate 1.5 times non-cloud partners. Kevin mentioned this on Monday as well. 
And this opportunity is only going to continue to accelerate, with customer demand for cloud and hybrid services projected to reach 190 billion by 2020. So the opportunity is clearly there.
And many of you have embraced this opportunity, but you’ve continued to tell me that you’d still value more information on how to continue to adjust your business in this ever-changing market.
And we’ve created a site dedicated on the partner portal to profitability in the cloud where we’re regularly updating the assets. It goes beyond just the opportunity into the details of the how, because when I’ve talked to a lot of partners, you’ve asked me, how do you adjust your business model or adopt new business models, how do I structure my sales force, how do I differentiate or innovate?
We’ve worked with analysts from IDC and many of our own partners, who have taken different approaches to building profitable cloud practices, so that we can give you a real-world perspective and help you answer those questions for yourself.
As a matter of fact, we just launched an e-book with IDC, available today in nine languages, on cloud partner profitability. And if you want to see that e-book today, just go out to the partner portal and search for cloud partner profitability, and you’ll find it.
We’re committed to helping you keep your edge in this changing market, and we’re confident that these profitability resources are going to help.
Now, as I said, MPN is core to your enablement, and Gavriella Schuster was on this stage on Monday talking about the new cloud competencies for Office 365, Azure and later this fiscal year CRM Online. This is your feedback at work, and these new competencies unlock the richest value proposition in the industry.
Now, it’s true, we’re talking a lot about cloud benefits, but I want to be very clear, every partner, regardless of your business model, will see additional benefits to increase value and lower the cost of partnering with us this fiscal year. 
Now, the final pillar is our sales engagement model. And when I think of this, I can’t help but emphasize the 3,000 Microsoft employees, whose job every day is working through you for both marketing and sales efforts, 3,000 people whose success, whose own success, is driven by helping you realize your vision with Microsoft. That’s an industry benchmark we’re really proud of.
And there’s more with new investments and the big bets we’re making around Azure and CRM Online, and these bets are going to help us grow these businesses faster and help you accelerate your business.
Now, I’ve only scratched the surface as I’ve summarized these pillars, but I wanted to give you an idea of the portfolio view that we take to how we invest in this partnership, and the work that my team and I do to make sure we drive this initiative across Microsoft.
So I just want to close with my commitment to you. My mission, plain and simple, is to increase the value of your partnership with Microsoft, to lower the cost of partnering with us, of making it easier to do business with us. That equation results in increased profitability. You have my commitment that this is the filter that I’ll use to drive decisions in my organization and I’ll work with my colleagues across this company.
Look, navigating this changing market is a journey, and while we don’t have all the answers, there’s one thing I’m very, very certain about. Our success in a mobile-first, cloud-first world will be achieved through a highly successful partner ecosystem. The complexion of this ecosystem may be a little different than it has been in the past, the business models reflected in it may be a little bit different, but I’m confident there’s a place for every single one of you in this future, and we want you with us.
There is so much opportunity out there, and I’ve never been more confident in our ability to succeed together.
So let’s go win it together. Thank you. 
 Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome your 2014 Imagine Cup World Championship Kate Yeager.
 Guys, let’s hear it for the UW Marching Band.
Hello and welcome to the Imagine Cup everybody. Yes, I’ll take another. 
Yes, it’s a competition, but more importantly it’s a celebration, a celebration of student innovation, student creativity, the power that these students from around the world have, not to look into the future, but to change it for the better.
This 12th installment of the Imagine Cup marks an important milestone. For the first time in history, the championship is being held in Microsoft’s hometown, the Pacific Northwest.
Today we are guests of TechReady, a conference dedicated to Microsoft’s vision of the future. So it’s a tremendous opportunity for our student developers to meet their counterparts here at Microsoft. And to see firsthand what it’s like to bring technology to the real world. Tomorrow we’re inviting you and the entire Seattle community to visit our student developers at MOHAI, the Museum of History and Industry on the shores on the Lake Union. All the students will be there. You can bring your friends and family and check out all of these amazing projects in action.
So for our competitors the journey to Imagine Cup started long before they ever got on a plane to Seattle. It began months, sometimes years ago with an idea, a spark, a dream, not to mention countless nights, undoubtedly fueled by another local innovation, coffee. You’re about to see teams receive awards in three premier categories , and . Then each of the three firstplace-winning teams will compete on stage for the Imagine Cup.
So our finalists have seen unprecedented opportunities and experiences throughout the competitioneyond the $50,000 they take home the top team in each category will earn incredible opportunities. So we are fortunate enough to have three very special guests reside over the competition. This panel of luminaries have spent time this week getting to know the contestants and their technologies, evaluating each team on their concept, how innovative it is, how they’ve executed, and how they plan to bring it to market.
This morning the judges will lead a questionandanswer session on stage, three amazing teams, but only one can take home the cup. Our first judge is a Harvard graduate, an angel advisor, investor, he could be that, too, and a strategic advisor to startups like Facebook, Dropbox and Blueai. He is also the founder of Code.org, a nonprofit organization dedicated to encouraging people, especially students, to learn to code.
Please welcome Hadi Partovi. 
Anyone who has read and asked me anything can recognize the second judge as general manager of Reddit. He helped grow the site into an incredibly influential, highly trafficked community, with more than 4.7 billion page views every month. That many other accomplishments landed him on Time Magazine’s 100 most influential people list not long ago. Please welcome Erik Martin. 
Our third and final judge has brought the spirit of innovation to work each and every day of his 22-year Microsoft career. He’s spent a lifetime building things from his days at Mangalore University in India to leading one of the world’s largest organizations into the next age of computing. Get your cameras ready, ladies and gentlemen, the CEO of Microsoft Satya Nadella. 
Thank you judges and we’ll see you a little bit later in the show.
So across the last 12 years Imagine Cup has reached more than 1.7 million studentshis year, tens of thousands worldwide competed in more than 70 national, regional and global contests. And from all of those projects we invited 34 top teams to Seattle this week to work for our world championship. Now these students are about to step on stage alongside these three judges to compete for the highest honor, the Imagine Cup.
But, before we get to that please join me in welcoming a driving force behind Imagine Cup, Microsoft Corporate Vice President and Chief Evangelist Steve Guggenheimer.
 All right. Good morning everybody. Good morning. This is awesome, 12 years of doing Imagine Cup. We’ve been all over the world. We’ve been to Egypt. We’ve been to India, Australia, Korea, really faraway places like New York. We’ve done it for the first time, thoughas we brought it back here. So first off thank you to the TechReady audience for having us here today. We really appreciate it. Thanks to the students, our partners, the folks that are helping us, our Microsoft student partners that are here and then what an incredible judge panel. What an incredible panel of judges, hands up for them. 
So I just have a couple of quick things this morning to get us going. We started with 33,000 students in more than 100 countries. We’re down to the top 34 teams from 34 different countries today, pretty big honor. We love the notion of what the students are doing. What you’ll notice this year over the course of the years in the past, these projects are becoming more refined. It’s not just about technology. It’s about the technology plus the user experience, plus an audience, plus a business model. It’s a project.
And so we come from a student-run startup. Microsoft started by a student who didn’t finish college. He kicked it off, grew this business and I think in the student-run startup category Microsoft stands out as one that did pretty well. So one of the things we want to do from that is for the winner of the Imagine Cup today whoever wins the prize, personal mentoring session from Bill Gates, the original startup mentor in our industry. 
So that’s one piece. The second thing, we have Hadi here with us today. And one of the things we want to do over the next year is continue to grow the scale of the folks that participate in the Imagine Cup. Part of how we want to do that is we want to continue to scale not just universities around the world, but to a younger generation of developers. We’re seeing developers and entrepreneurs starting much younger today. And so we’re going to work on growing the breadth in which we work to younger and younger generations. And one of the things we want to do in partnership with Hadi on that, his organization Code.org has run something called an our of .
It turns out we have 7,000 Microsoft student partners around the globe who can take that program and take it to universities to high school, all around the world and get more and more students involved in coding. So we’re going to support Hadi. We’re going to pick up the of and we’re going to carry that forward, to try to grow the base of developers around the world. So thanks for kicking it off and we’re going to go there with you.
All right. One last thing then we’ll get into the judging and the award winners. Every year when we come and do this we announced where we’re going to have the next year’s . I’ll tell you it’s been an incredible week. We learn a ton from the students. Getting the students their energy on campus as part of the One Week, getting the opportunity to have them interact with our developers and our teams, getting people to see the beautiful of Seattle, and getting the interactionslook it went really well. We got really good feedback. So we’re going to break precedent. We’re coming back here next year. We’re going to do it again.
Satya, let’s hear it for Satya. If we do One Week again we’ll line it up. But, lookI love the learning we get from the students. We love having you here. The feedback has been great. So we’ll see you again next year in Seattle here. Let’s go on with the show.
Thank you.
 Well, thank you, Guggs.
Let’s celebrate the winning students, shall we? But before we get to the three major award categories, let’s give a shout out to our partner award and challenge winners, who were honored earlier this week but are here with us now. Students, go ahead, stand up. There you go. Yes, there you are. Big round of applause. 
Take a look around you. We have students here from many countries around the world, including Uganda, Japan, Venezuela, France and Jamaica. Together we are all citizens of the world.
So what does it mean to be a world citizen? What is one person’s responsibility compared to the billions of people on this planet? The Imagine Cup World Citizenship Competition embraces the belief that technology can be a powerful force for good, focuses on transforming how we think about health, education, social issues and the environment.
Some past winners in this category have built prototypes for determining blood types in emergency situations, and using smartphones to replace hearing aids. It’s kind of inspiring stuff, wouldn’t you agree?
To announce our winners, please welcome Microsoft’s General Counsel and Executive Vice President Brad Smith.
 Good morning. I want to say how thrilled all of us from Microsoft are. We’re so thrilled to be here this morning. It’s a great pleasure just to recognize and honor such amazing student innovators from around the world.
At Microsoft we do a lot of work to advance our corporate citizenship, but the truth is this, there is nothing that is more important than the work we try to do to help youth improve their own futures and empower themselves and enrich their communities.
Our commitment to youth is embodied in our Global YouthSpark Initiative. It actually goes beyond citizenship. It goes beyond philanthropy. It includes a number of products and projects and programs offered by Microsoft as a whole. But if you step back and you think about it, it’s all about one thing. We’re trying to give young people the access to the tools and the opportunities to design, to build, to really deliver new technologies that will help make the world a better place.
Of everything that we do to support youth, nothing is more emblematic of what young people can accomplish, nothing is more symbolic of the opportunity we all have to bring the world together than the Imagine Cup. It is truly special. It gives young people the opportunity to show the world what you all can do. Your success here today at the Imagine Cup not only changes lives for those who participate, but someday for all of us in this room, for people around the world, we may wake up and find that something that we saw here has touched us and our families.
So let’s get to the three winners for the citizenship category beginning with our thirdplace winner. It is Access Earth from Ireland. 
Congratulations, it’s fantastic. Here you go, congratulations. Congratulations. Congratulations. And there’s a little check here for $5,000. Congratulations.
Now on to the secondplace winner, which is Smart Crew from Taiwan. 
Here you go. Congratulations. Congratulations. Here you go. Clearly this is the most important thing right here, but in addition to this you have a check that can go right underneath it if you’d like. Here you go. Congratulations. 
And finally, in the category we have our firstplace winner, a team that receives $50,000 and an invitation to work with Microsoft YouthSpark for a week. That winner is Eyenaemia from Australia. 
Congratulations. Congratulations. Here you go. 
To Eyenaemia, to all of the teams that participated in the citizenship category, thank you, well done. 
 Thank you, Brad. You’re going to see Eyenaemia in just a few minutes for their chance to compete for the Imagine Cup.
We all know playing games is a universal experience because they’re fun. They’re a healthy outlet for our competitive natures, a chance to vanquish opponents on an imaginary battlefield. And that is what the games category is all about.
To create a successful game developers must bring together a story, a challenge, logic, design, interaction, engineering and so, so much more. Our winner today has unlocked that achievement.
Here to announce the winners is a titan in the field, the creator of Tetris, a Microsoft veteran, a true master of game development, Alexey Pajitnov.
 Thank you games. It’s amazing to think how much gaming has changed since Tetris was first released in ’84. 
So from Xbox One to mobile game platforms empower almost limitless creativity. And today the game is much more immersive, challenging and much more fun than ever before, I think. And it’s very inspiring to see what student teams have accomplished. And now let’s see who wins the prize.
So the third prize goes to Illogic Egypt. 
That’s for you. That part for you. That’s for you. And the last part. Don’t run away. That small check for whatever, $5,000. Great job guys. 
Now the second place. Second place goes to BomBom Korea. 
Great job guys, congratulations. Thank you. Congratulations. Congratulations, don’t run away. That’s the important part. 
And finally the Oscar goes to, wow, so the firstplace team will take home a $50,000 prize and all-expense paid trip both to PAXDev and PAX Prime festival, which is where they will spend four days demoing their game. And the winner is, could you believe it, Brainy Studio Russia.  My compatriots.
 Hey!  Congratulations.  
 Thank you, Alexey. And we’ll see Brainy Studio out here in not too long competing for the cup. 
The Imagine Cup’s Innovation category comprises social networks, music services, digital photography apps, gadgets and robotics, the list goes on. 
So that’s the future, and you’re about to see it for yourself right here, right now. 
To announce our Innovation winners, let’s welcome back Guggs.  
 All right, three more to go before the live competition. This is the Innovation category, it’s my favorite, because , you don’t actually know what you’re looking for, but when you see it, you know you found it, and that’s the beauty of innovation. 
So let’s jump right in, let’s start with the third-place winner. The third-place winner goes to ButterFly Bahrain. This is a very cool solution. Where’s the team from Bahrain? So great, so great. Congratulations, well done. Thank you. I have a 16-year-old daughter, she loves your stuff. So you guys are perfect for that. Let’s get the photo, here’s the check, sorry. I forgot the important part. There we go, I’ll help hold it. 
All right, let’s go ahead and look at the solution. 
  I’ve got to tell you, as the father of a 16-year-old daughter, she knew innovation when she saw that one.  
Let’s jump up to now. Second place in the Innovation category, another awesome, awesome team, Tep from Hungary. Come on, Tep team. 
Way to go. Way to go. Here you go. There you go. All right. Now we’re up here. We’ve got the 10K check. 
  All right. Now we get to , and the third contestant in the final round for the overall Imagine Cup winner. In the Innovation category, they also receive a 50K check. But in addition, we’re going to do a four-week accelerator, mini version of an acceleratorhrough Microsoft Ventures, so you’re going to join the Microsoft Ventures Accelerator in the country or location closest to you. 
So here we go. The , do we have some Kiwis in the house from Estimeet? Come on up. Well done. Well done.  Awesome job. 
Let me get the really big check here. I’ll hold this below, you got the other end of it? 
  One more hand for Estimeet and all the Innovation winners.  All right, I’m going to have you guys go that way. 
We’re going to invite Kate back out. 
 Thanks, Guggs. And Estimeet, we will see them in just a moment. 
so you’ve seen finalists and winners from across all three premier categories: World Citizenship, Games and Innovation. There’s only one thing left to do: Decide which of the first-place teams will take home the Imagine Cup. 
So you’re about to witness a question-and-answer competition that unfolds on this stage in three rounds, each one based on the competition’s three principles. 
Right now, each of the three teams are on even ground. How they answer each of the judges’ questions will go a long way in determining who is the champion. 
So the first round is the Dream It round. What inspired these teams? What was the spark that led to the idea? The second round is the Build It round. The questions will be about the technology behind the idea, the nuts and bolts of how this stuff works. 
The final round is the Live It round. An invention is only useful if you can bring it to the world. So what are the business plans that will make these projects viable? We’ll dig into how these students plan to market their innovation. Are you ready? Yeah. 
So I hope our judges are. Let’s welcome back Erik, Hadi and Satya.  
Welcome back, guys. Now, judges, you’ve all done your homework. You are familiar with the projects that earned these teams a trip here today. Now, it’s your job to decide who will take home the Imagine Cup, and with it, a personal meeting with Bill Gates. 
So let’s bring out our finalists. The winners of the World Citizenship category, Eyenaemia from Australia.  The winners of the Games category, Brainy Studio from Russia.  The winners of the Innovation category, Estimeet from New Zealand.  
All right, teams. Welcome to the Imagine Cup. Are you excited? Yeah. 
Our three judges have prepared questions for you. Now, you’re only going to have 90 seconds to answer each question. And, yes, you will be on the clock. 
So when you’re asked the question, your team can huddle to decide if you want to answer in a specific way. But remind yourselves, that goes against your 90-second time limit. 
So you’ll know you’re getting close to time expiring when you hear this music. So if you exceed the time allowed, true story, I’m not afraid to interrupt. That’s the truth. 
Judges, , this is going to be a tricky part for you guys. You may be tempted to ask a lot of questions, but in each round, you only get one. Make it count. 
Students, we’ll begin with the Dream It round. Let’s talk about how you got your idea and here you found your inspiration. Hadi, the first question is to you over at the World Citizenship Team, Eyenaemia. 
 So, obviously, helping detect anemia is a very important thing to do. My question is: How did you think that you could do that using a mobile app? And what made you think of using the color card? 
 So why we thought we could do this using a mobile app. This idea of using conjunctiva color is not a new one. It’s been around for thousands of years. We get taught that in medical schools, dates back to the days of Hippocrates. 
We combined old teachings with modern technology and used color standards that are widely used in photography. And we thought that we could make something better than just eyeballing it — so to speak. 
 So with the mobile app, our whole kind of idea came from, , selfies are big right now. We want people to be able to do something that they’re used to doing, something such as taking a selfie, and be able to identify it. 
At the end of the day, what we want to do is ensure that preventable causes of anemia are picked up before it’s too late, that you identify it, and that they are actually treated. So that’s pretty much how — 
 Yeah, and we’ve been in the medical field, even though we’ve only just got our medical training. We’ve seen many people affected by anemia, and we’ve seen it in remote areas. We’ve seen people who — even in Australia, a developed country — who aren’t able to access healthcare because they’re so far away from the nearest clinic. And that’s what really drove us to seek a better solution. 
   And, Erik, your question for the Games team, Brainy Studio. 
 Brainy Studio, we heard about the inspiration with Earth Hour for the overall game, but tell us what inspired you to create this visual world? Tell us about what sparked you to do the look and even the music of this world you’ve created? 
 Yeah. The inspiration for us was Earth Hour. Yes. And we want to create a unique game atmosphere. And we want to make not the 3D game, not the 2D game, we want to mix that and to make two-and-a-half-D game. Because we think it’s a really great mix, and our visual style artist, he made this great job. And, yeah.  Thank you. 
 My visual style in the game, it’s like a very simple style because it’s straight lines, really simple shapes. I think that it could be very interesting and looks really cool in the game. I don’t know how it will look in the game, so I just made it. And so, wow, it’s . Everybody love it. So this is it. 
 And that’s what the game inspire and theme inspire us to make this graphic style, it was the cartoon Paranormal. It’s really great.   
 And for our last question in the Dream It round, Satya. Over to the Innovation team, Estimeet. 
 It’s an amazing app. I was just wondering, you have some inspirational stories to tell from your friends perhaps? Or what made you build this? Were your friends usually late to parties? Or what was it?  
 Yes, so the kind of friends we have, as you know, obviously, 60 percent of them are late all the time.  
 Man, that’s accurate. 
 So there was this time we were meeting at the train station. And one of our friends said they would be right there in five minutes. And as you can imagine, we were still waiting there two hours later.  
That’s just one of the few examples. When you walk down the street, you can see everyone, people on their phones waiting for people asking, “Where are you? How long will you be? Are you even on your way?” So that’s what our app tries to answer. It answers all these questions in a simple interface. 
 Because we found that people were very sensitive about their information sharing, that’s why we decided to not share their exact location with their friends. That’s one of the different things about our app. 
 But then I guess, for the Imagine Cup, we had four members in our team. One of them would be constantly late to the meetings.  And then, funnily enough, he wasn’t able to make it here today.   But that’s a whole entire different reason, we won’t blame him for that. Just want to say we made it.   
 . Well done, teams. We’re going to go on to the second round called the Built It round. In this round’s questions, it will be about all the technology behind your project, how you actually built them, and how you brought your ideas to life. 
So Satya, we’re going back to you, the first question is yours for the Games team, Brainy Studio. 
 So you used the Unity Engine, and obviously, it’s a mobile app. So I know that you also have some ideas around virtual reality. So give me a little bit of how you want to extend this with what you’ve built, to what I think is an emerging trend around games. 
 So we really like the virtual reality technology, and we think we as the developers can help a little bit to spread it worldwide. So we decided we would like to make this support of that technology in our game. 
And what we did, we didn’t have, for example, normal glasses for us. So we decided to make hand-made virtual reality glasses. Yes, we take the big Windows Phone, Nokia Lumia 1520, yes, and use it as a screen. Use the accelerometer in it, and we write some code in Unity to divide the cameras for the left eye to the right eye. 
And we did it really great — you can just look at after that.  
 Two video screens, basically? 
 Technically, yes. But when you put on the virtual reality glasses, you see the 3D effect. And we tried to make the design of our game really for the 3D, like roller coasters from the different side of you, because we had wires. And we have a demo version in the Windows Phone Store, so you can download it and try it.  
 Let’s move on to Hadi, a question for the Innovation team. 
 Right. So, Estimeet, you guys are building what is naturally a social and viral app. And by the choice of going on the Windows platform, if I want to organize something with a bunch of friends, have you thought about using either HTML 5 or going cross-platform, so the other friends I want to meet up with can respond to me to tell me where they are? 
 Yeah. Our next step is building cross-platform. We are planning to the next three months or so release this app to all three platforms. About HTML 5, we’re going to look into it. We don’t have much knowledge in this area yet. 
 And how about for friends who don’t even have the app? Can they use it using HTML 5 using their Web browser on their phone? 
 Yeah, we’ll look into it.  
 All right. 
 They’re mobile first.  
 So for people who don’t even have the app, we were thinking about integrating Facebook into our app as well. So post the events from Facebook as well as your friends. And that will be a very easy way, leveraging off a market. 
And, yeah, in terms of the development, we are looking into a three to six-month development process for those platforms. So we will then enable friends on any type of platform to meet up together in a smarter way.  
 And, , the final question in the Build It round is for you. World Citizenship team. 
 Eyenaemia, so you do the image processing in the cloud. It seems like this has a lot of potential for areas where they may not have access to the cloud yet. What are the possibilities for doing the processing locally or in some other method? 
 So, I’ll answer this question in two ways. So the first is, why did we choose to build it in the cloud? So we believe that this is a mobile-first, cloud-first world.  And this century is going to be marked by the fact that humans can now extend their powers beyond their minds, just like the steam engine let us extend our physical powers beyond our muscles I believe that the cloud computing revolution can let us extend our minds beyond what we can do normally. 
For instance, not just to do new things, but to do old things better and faster. So even, like you said, there are some areas that can’t access the cloud. But what we’ve found is that in a lot of areas, even in villages in Africa, places that you don’t expect to even have running water, they do have a mobile phone, they have 2G access. 
And by putting it on the cloud, we enable our program to run on every platform. And I mean every platform. Not just iOS, Android, Windows Phone — I mean feature phones, cameras, anything that can take a photo and anything that can reach a Web browser. And that means that we can reach the most number of people everywhere, worldwide.  
Regarding the possibility of putting it locally, that is definitely possible. The processing can be offloaded onto a normal PC or desktop. In fact, that was what my first prototype was.  
 . Excellent answers all around, you guys. So there’s one round left, though, and that’s the Live It round. It’s about how you plan to bring your technologies to market. So let’s get to it. Erik, please begin the round with a question for the innovation team. 
 Estimeet, you guys have a lot of competition out there from existing services, some of which are very big competitors. And you also have a “freemium” model. What type of premium features do you think people would be willing to pay for versus all the free services out there? 
 Yeah, so the main difference we have with our competitors is the privacy. And I think we can appeal to a lot of users out there. We think they don’t want to disclose their exact location to their friends. 
With regard to the premium features, we think that our app — like if you meet up at a café in advance, set up a meeting next week. We can think of, like, discounts that you can provide to your friends meeting up. 
For the premium features, you could talk about — 
 Yeah, so we’ll be providing a free for a trial period. And after that, there will be restrictions on how many meetings they can have per month. And they can unlock it through an in-app purchase. 
 , cool.  Oh, yes. Satya, you question for the World Citizenship team? 
 I like the way you thought about the world as developing and developed, and even though about the business model for the two. Maybe you want to talk a little bit about maybe insurance companies in the developed world and what they may do with your app. And then in the developing world, you talked about NGOs and other organizations. So tell me a little more about how you plan to go to market with these governmental or nongovernmental organizations. 
 So I have to admit that my experience with insurance companies is lacking. I come from Australia, and we live in a world of socialized medicine.  
But to the best of my ability, I will answer your question. So we think that insurance companies can use this as a preventative health measure. We don’t think that health is something that some people are working against. Like some people seem to think that insurance companies don’t want people to be healthy. And we don’t think that’s true. 
We think that insurance companies play a big role in preventative health because it’s in their interest. You don’t want someone to go to the hospital and have to do thousands of dollars of payouts. 
And we think insurance companies can actually use this to tell you, to give them impetus to improve their own health. And we see that this is going to happen in a lot of places. 
I’m sure all of you are here are familiar with the Quantified Self movement, and that really strikes at the heart of it, to use data, big data, to monitor our own bodies in the way that we monitor everything else in the world, to make that universal. 
 In regards to NGOs and partnerships. So, currently, we can imagine Eyenaemia working everywhere. It is the world’s first simple, noninvasive, and easily accessible tool for screening anemia.  
I’ll answer really quickly because we have seven seconds. We’ve already had our app in hospitals within Australia, and the next step is going to be partnering with every single health organizations.
 Under the wire, I love it.  Hadi, you have the honor of asking the last question in the competition. Over to the Games team. 
 I was waiting for somebody to run over the time and hear that sound.  
So my question for you guys, you know, your app is basically a game, but it was inspired by electricity conservation, energy conservation. So similar to the World Citizenship team, have you thought about using NGOs or nonprofits as a distribution mechanism? Distribution is one of the hardest things for games initially. 
 So we didn’t think about that.  But, yes, it’s a great question. We need to think about this. I have one minute and 10 seconds.   I think we will do it. We will definitely do it. 
 Let me ask differently: What are your ideas for distribution? 
 Yes, this is a good question.   So we want to make monetization model “freemium.” It’s a free demo version with one episode, and full version with fixed price. Because we don’t think that the advertising model is suitable for us because the kids also may play our game. And for you to play, it’s not also our story. Because we thought it’s like free-to-play movie, just imagine. You start watching this movie, and after 15 minutes, you get a message, “Oh, you ran out of energy, you need to wait 24 hours to continue watching the movie.” 
So our model is demo and full version with a fixed price. And we have some money to promote our game, so —   
 Well, that does it. Three rounds of questions are complete. Guys, these are some brave students. Let’s give them a round of applause for our three Imagine Cup contenders.  
And the are hard work for judges, too. So in a moment, we’re going to give them a quick break backstage to deliberate. In the meantime, we’ve got a special guest who would like to say a few works. 
 Congratulations to all of you for the work you’ve done so far in the Imagine Cup. The great thing about young innovators is that they see things the rest of us don’t. They have a fresh perspective and a new way of looking at old problems. 
When Paul Allen and I were starting Microsoft, we pulled all-nighters and worked 18-hour days. We were nonstop, and it was really wonderful. 
When I talk to innovators today and hear about their ideas, it takes me back to those early days. 
One of the amazing things about software development is that one or two people with a great idea sitting in a dorm room or a garage can make a huge impact. 
With today’s technologies like cloud computing and easy download to mobile devices, the opportunity to have a big impact very quickly is larger than ever. 
The Imagine Cup is an excellent way to recognize and reward young innovators, and encourage them to keep working on ideas that can change the world. 
I’m looking forward to meeting the students who take home this year’s Imagine Cup. Good luck to all of you.  
 All right.  It’s been an amazing week for us at Microsoft. We did our first companywide hackathon this week and we had over 100,000 people all participating. 
And then to have a chance on Friday to come here and spend time with student developersI wish every week was like this where you just live amongst developers all the time. 
And it’s just exciting. I mean, if you think about it, just seeing Bill speak, we are the original student developer company and the original tools company. And to have that inspiration that comes from listening and talking and seeing developers imagine things. And especially the young developers. I mean, the ideas we saw this morning amongst the winners. I was also looking at all the various teams that competed. First of all, give all of yourselves a round of applause. You were fantastic.  
The thing that is perhaps most exciting to me is we live in a time where we can imagine the impossible and make it probable. And you saw it in the finalists, you saw it in the other winners. There’s just boundless imagination and the possibilities of what technology can do to any walk of life. And that’s what makes it exciting. 
And to be able to take that power, the power of software and the tools and democratize innovation, starting with the youth is something that’s truly inspirational for us at Microsoft and it’s great to see all of you compete and compete with a spirit that I think is only going to make each one of us better. So thank you for participating, thank you, and congratulations to the winners. 
But I want to have Erik and Hadi also come up and share some thoughts. One of the things I’m really excited about is this tradition of perhaps bringing back all of you to Seattle to celebrate your boundless imagination. Thank you.  Hadi? 
 As somebody who’s been trying to get students around the world to learn computer programming and just get started with the basics, it’s just amazing to me to see not only these finalists, but also the teams before them as well. The level of technical excellence in all of the apps you guys have created is just stunning. That’s what I’d say. 
 That’s awesome. Erik? 
 Yeah, so Reddit is also a student startup. You know, Reddit has not won any design awards, it looks like it’s from the ’90s perhaps.  So I was especially impressed with just how good all of these different programs looked. The UX on them, how easy they are to use for anyone around the world. And just the level of detail and polish is really, really impressive.  
 So are we ready for the award? 
 I think we have a winner picked. 
 I think so. I think so. Are you going to give me my cue? All right, thank you so much. I mean, I must say, everyone should think of themselves in the finalists as winners. It’s just amazing. The stories behind your ideas were equally impressive, and I thought you all did fantastic in responding to all the questions. You know, that 90-second thing, I didn’t know what to ask, and you did much better than me.  
So the three of us, we spent exactly 90 seconds deciding. It was great to come to a unanimous decision, it is Eyenaemia from New Zealand. Congratulations.   Good morning, everyone, and welcome.  Great to be in San Francisco this morning to talk about our cloud.
This morning, what we’re going to do is spend time talking about three things:  We will define the Microsoft Cloud.  We will talk about the uniqueness of our approach as well as the offering.  We will also go into some detail on one chapter of our cloud strategy, which is around infrastructure, and we’ll share some news and progress.  So that’s what we plan to do over the next 45 minutes.
I always like to start with our world view.  We are well and truly in this mobile-first, cloud-first world.  And when we say “mobile-first,” what we mean by that is the mobility of the individual experience.  It is not about the mobility of the device, but it’s the mobility of the experiences that you as individuals interact with in your digital life and work every day, from the sensors to the small screens to the large screens.
And that experience mobility comes about because of the cloud and its ability to orchestrate that mobility and power that mobility with intelligence, because it has the ability to reason over all of the data and bring the ubiquitous computing fabric and this power to help with those experiences light up across all of these devices.  That’s what we mean by a mobile-first, cloud-first world.
And Microsoft’s unique contribution in this world, which is the question that needs to be both asked and answered, is about productivity and platform.  That’s our core, that’s the soul of our company, and that’s what we want to bring to this mobile-first, cloud-first world.
Simply put, we want to empower every individual and every organization to be able to thrive in this mobile-first, cloud-first world.  When it comes to productivity, we think very broadly of productivity.  We think about individual productivity, we think about teams, we think about business process.
You see it in the offerings that we have.  Our intelligent agent in Cortana reasons about all of the data that you have, both at work and life, and helps you get more out of every moment of your life.
Applications like Delve and Office 365 or Power BI and Dynamics take it beyond that to your team productivity, information discovery and business process.  So that’s how we think about productivity.
In platform, the core sensibility that we have as a company is about how do we harmonize the interests across end users, developers and IT?  We believe by bringing together those three constituents is how you build platforms that create opportunities for everyone and for businesses to be able to get true advantage of technology.
Believe me, we make our share of mistakes sometimes in trying to bring together that harmony.  But that’s what we’ve done over and over again in terms of the platforms that we have delivered into the marketplace.  And that’s core to everything that we do.
That’s the context with which I want to talk about today the Microsoft Cloud.  The Microsoft Cloud is the most complete cloud offering that empowers every business across every industry in every geography.  And at its core, you have the most ubiquitous, horizontal business applications in Office 365 and Dynamics.
These are the applications that every user inside of an organization that uses these applications touches uses.  I mean, collaboration and communication in particular are central.  And that’s what Office 365 enables.
And to power a lot of that, we’ve built a hyper-scale cloud.  Azure is our hyper-scale cloud that’s also part of Microsoft Cloud.
Now, we don’t start there.  We also enable true hybrid and private cloud deployments.  So this coming together of hyper-scale cloud infrastructure that even extends to the edge by supporting private cloud and hybrid cloud deployments, and powers these ubiquitous SaaS applications in Office 365 and Dynamics is something that only Microsoft does.  That’s the uniqueness of our Microsoft Cloud offering.
Now, the best way to perhaps understand even what we have in Microsoft Cloud, what has inspired us to build this, how we’re evolving it, is to look at some of the customers using it.  The variety of use cases — in fact, between what I’m going to talk about and what Scott’s going to talk about, we’re going to talk a lot about Microsoft customers and their use of Microsoft Cloud because that’s what really drives us to evolve the cloud with the flexibility, with the openness, with the power that is needed for each one of these businesses.
When it comes to powering the variety of businesses, let’s start right here in this city.  In fact, San Francisco runs on Microsoft Cloud.  The City of San Francisco, Miguel is here, who is the CIO of the City of San Francisco.  They’ve chosen to run Office 365 to power their workforce.  In fact, one of the main considerations was what happens during any disaster recovery situation?  How can the cloud help?  And that’s been a fundamental choice for them, and the Microsoft Cloud helping in that context.
San Jose also.  And Vijay from San Jose is here.  They run on Microsoft Cloud.  Their choice was primarily driven by the mobile workforce and the need to be able to have a cloud infrastructure that can enable everyone in their workforce.
So it’s not just the largest of the enterprises where we have traditionally done well and we continue to do super well, but it’s even public sector and small businesses that are adopting the Microsoft Cloud.  So that gives us one flavor of how Microsoft Cloud is powering businesses.
A second example I wanted to talk about is NBC.  NBC has been using Microsoft Cloud in a variety of different ways for some time.  They use it for encoding their video.  They now not only do encoding, but they do live streaming.  In fact, starting with the Olympics, the Winter Olympics and then going on to the World Cup and now the Sunday football, they’re using the cloud for both encoding as well as live streaming.
But the interesting part is not just that.  It’s the fact that now they have over a thousand-plus live events that they’re going to stream.  This is not something that they did pre-cloud because now they have the ability to stand up cloud infrastructure, hydrate it, dehydrate it, with the speed and agility that it gives them, the ability to now go ahead and take these thousand events with niche audiences and really serve them with live events.  So that’s a business model innovation for them.
Another example of this is around business insights.  This is more about how one can transform an existing business.  ThyssenKrupp, which is an elevator company out of Germany, it’s actually a fascinating story.  I mean, one of the things that is going to happen is seven out of 10 people by 2050 are going to live in cities.  So if there is one thing secular about that, there are going to be more elevators needed.  And ThyssenKrupp is sort of planning ahead.
They today have over 1.1 million elevators that are directly connected back to a cloud infrastructure they’ve built on Azure.  They’re able to monitor all of these million elevators in real time, know which elevators are in stadiums, which elevators are in hospitals, which elevators are in any other place.  And their ability to reason over the data that’s coming back and offer differentiated service.  Because the business model transformation for them is to be able to do things like predictive maintenance in hospitals that are different, perhaps, than in stadiums.
So that business model change is enabled because of the insight that they’re able to get from this Internet of Things application.  In their case, it’s the Internet of “their” things as opposed to Internet of “our” things.
Another example of using that cloud infrastructure, as we today across the industry, academia and the government is all coming together to find solutions for Ebola, one of the things that tomorrow morning we’re going to do is make available Azure compute power to the research community.  In addition, we have some tools that Microsoft Research has built to be able to do vaccine discovery.
And so we want to take all of that and make it available for the research community as the industry, government and everyone else comes together to be able to tackle the challenge of Ebola.  So that’s just another example of how we believe that companies like ours can help in tackling some of the challenges that we as a society are faced with.
The last example I want to give you to just sort of bring out again the variety of businesses and how they use the cloud is Paul Smith.  Paul Smith is a British fashion designer.  They also run retail operations of their own.  They opened four or five stores in a year.  They run a very, very tight IT operation.  They have around 10 people in IT or 15 people in IT.  They have been working with us for a couple of years.  They, in fact, have a virtualized infrastructure that’s super-efficient and it’s got virtualization rates of around over 80 percent.
And you could say that’s a beautiful operation.  What do they do next?  One of the fundamental things that they have now figured out is how can they use Azure for disaster recovery?  So if you have multiple stores, you can use the control plane of Azure to be able to do disaster recovery.
Also, one of the things that every datacenter does today is deal with storage.  In other words, they’re buying storage every quarter because what is true in datacenters is just the growth of data.
But now through an appliance called StorSimple, you can plug that into your datacenter and cloud tier it.  So all of the core storage is now in the cloud and you can materialize that when needed in your datacenter.
So it’s a great example of someone who’s already running a very efficient infrastructure on premises to be able to take the cloud and use the power of the cloud to get even more efficient.
So that variety of example is what inspires us to build Azure out, build this hyper-scale public cloud infrastructure out with the flexibility that is needed.  In some sense, the customers that we’re working with across geography and across industry, across sizes is what’s helping us get grounded in the realities of what is needed in public cloud infrastructure.
Because it turns out, even though in our own case we have some very big services that run on Azure which are our own, things like Xbox Live, Bing, Office 365.  But the real goal for us is to understand how does one serve the variety of businesses?  And which it turns out you really do not want to get hijacked by just one or two application patterns, but you want to build a cloud that truly can meet the needs of every business in every vertical industry across every geography.
And so the way we’ve gone about that is on multiple layers.  So, for example, the Microsoft Cloud is ready for any device.  You can be on iOS or Android or Windows Phone and use the cloud for your application state, for your notification and as a back end for every application that you build across those devices.
We are also a cloud that supports any OS on any container technology.  So we support both Linux and Windows Server.
This is something that I want to just make sure I drill home.  Microsoft loves Linux.  Twenty percent of Azure is already Linux.  And we will have always first-class support for Linux distros.  In fact, Scott’s going to talk more about some additional container technology as well as new distros that we will get supported on Azure.  But this is something that I want to make sure that everyone recognizes, that this is not some new news, this is, in fact, today true.  And we only plan to take that to the next level going forward.
It also is the case that we support all data stacks.  We have fantastic support for SQL Server, which is a big business for us, but we also have support for Oracle on Azure, we have support for IBM on Azure, and every open source distribution of things like Cassandra, Hadoop or Mongo.  We have all of these data stacks available on top of Azure today for developers and businesses to be able to take advantage of.
When it comes to developers, so once you have support for Windows and Linux, you have support for all of the data stacks, it also means that any developer using any language on any framework can bring their code, use those frameworks on Azure.
Today, we have great support, obviously, for .NET, for Java, which is officially supported by Oracle.  We are the only public cloud that they support.  And PHP, Python and Node.js.  This is just a subset of the open source as well as other middle-tier frameworks and languages that are supported on Azure.
And the last point is perhaps the most important point, which is we are not building our hyper-scale cloud in Azure in isolation.  We are building it to compose well with other clouds.
We today, for example, in Azure AD have the ability to do single sign-on with all the other public clouds from Salesforce to Workday to even Amazon.  So you as an IT professional can use this one service on Azure to be able to manage the credentials of your employees across all of your public clouds.
That’s one of the core architectural tenets for us, which is how do we make sure that there are no limits to how Azure can be used when it comes to being able to support these other clouds.
The same is true when it comes to the true hybrid and private cloud.  And we will talk more about some of the specific improvements that we will announce today, but it’s very important for us that we support every business in every industry, many of them regulated in every geography where there will be data residency laws.  And given that complexity or the real-world complexity that one has to deal with, we want to enable these private and hybrid clouds as the edge of Azure.
So we don’t think of these as businesses that are legacy businesses.  They are, in fact, businesses that truly will take the power of what we do in Azure and bring about the full revolution of distributed computing going forward.  That’s our world view of how to build clouds.  It’s not about just building one mega-scale cloud, you absolutely build a mega-scale cloud, but it should have no limits in terms of how it works with other clouds.
That’s really the approach that has led to the success that we have.  We, today, have many customers, 80 percent of the Fortune 500 are on Microsoft Cloud.  We spend over $4.5 billion of capital in expanding our cloud each year.
We have our revenue run rate of $4.4 billion, and we’re very, very happy with the progress we’re making, the feedback cycle, because it’s still early days.  In spite of the $4.4 billion, it is still early days.  It’s the ability for us to be able to learn from the real-world complexity and use cases and evolve our cloud.  That’s the feedback cycle we’re on.
Given the momentum that we have with customers has also meant that startups and ISVs are betting on Azure.  Over 40 percent of Azure revenue today comes from third-party ISV and startup applications.  You’ll see that in the rest of our presentation as well.  We’re the best route to the enterprise customer for any startup here or anywhere else.
We want to create that opportunity.  That is something that we’ve always had at the core of how Microsoft has approached platforms, and you see that in that statistic.
And so, in closing, the Microsoft Cloud is the most-complete cloud, inclusive of the hyper-scale capabilities, hybrid and private cloud, as well as what we do in terms of delivering the most ubiquitous applications in Office 365 and Dynamics.
And what I wanted to have is Scott come up next and talk in more depth about our infrastructure and how we’re making rapid progress in taking that hyper-scale cloud and Azure and delivering the infrastructure that powers the world’s businesses and applications.  Scott?
  Satya.  Great, well, thanks for coming here this morning.  Azure is Microsoft’s cloud computing platform and enables businesses to move faster and do more.
A little over two years ago here at an event like this in San Francisco, we actually outlined our new strategy for Azure, a strategy that enables customers to take infrastructure as a service and platform as a service and use them together.  A strategy that allows customers to use the best of the Microsoft ecosystem and the best of the Linux ecosystem together, and one where we deliver unparalleled productivity and enable you to create apps and solutions that work with any device.
Since then, we’ve been hard at work building out that vision.  Over the last 12 months, we’ve released more than 300 major new features and services.  These improvements include not just significant improvements to our infrastructure capabilities, but also higher-level services as well.  Services like machine learning, live media streaming, as well as our database as a service offerings with SQL and NoSQL.
And these higher-level services enable customers to create even richer experiences and enable them to do it with a much faster time to market than the other cloud providers.
As we build out this vision, we’re seeing some truly great momentum in the marketplace.  Satya talked about how 80 percent of the Fortune 500 companies are now on the Microsoft Cloud.
To put that concretely, we’re actually signing up more than 10,000 new Azure customers every week.  We have more than 1.2 million SQL databases now hosted on Azure.  We have more than 30 trillion objects stored in the Azure storage system.  We have more than 350 million users in our Azure Active Directory.  We’re processing more than 18 billion authentications per week.
We’ve registered more than 2 million developers with our Visual Studio Online service, which we launched less than 12 months ago.  And what’s great is these customers are not just using the core infrastructure capabilities, but we’re now seeing more than 60 percent of our Azure customers also now taking advantage of our higher-level services as well.
Obviously, the cloud market is red-hot right now.  What I want to do is just spend a few minutes walking through how do we differentiate ourselves in the market versus others?
When I talk to customers about Azure, I often talk about these three circles of capability:  hyper-scale, enterprise-grade and hybrid.
The Microsoft Cloud is the only cloud that delivers on all three, and together, they provide a truly unique cloud offering that enables differentiated solutions for customers.
What I’m going to do is just drill into each one of these and start by talking about hyper-scale.
One key element of hyper-scale is having a cloud that provides truly global reach.  And we’ve been hard at work building out Azure all over the world.  The circles here on this map here represent Azure regions, which are clusters of datacenters where customers can now deploy and run code.
Next week, we’ll officially open up our two new Australia regions to the public, and this will basically bring us up to 19 Azure regions that are open for business around the world this month.
To put this in perspective, that’s more than twice the number of regions that AWS offers today, and that’s more than six times the number of regions that the Google cloud offers today.  And this enables customers to use Azure to deploy and run their applications closer to their own customers as well as their own employees than ever before.
And what makes Azure regions impressive is not just the global coverage they provide, but also the huge-scale capacity that each one delivers.  Each of our regions is composed, typically, of multiple datacenter buildings, each one up to a football field in size.  Put that in perspective, that’s big enough that you can actually park two jumbo jets complete with all the passengers inside them.
And what’s impressive is our regions are built out so we can actually run up to 16 of these massive datacenters, co-located together in the same area.  That’s enough capacity to run up to 600,000 servers in every region.  And, again, we have 19 of those regions open now around the world.
This hyper-scale footprint delivers immense scale economics, which allows us to continually cut prices.  It also gives customers the ability to instantly scale up and down solutions with confidence anywhere around the world.
And if I put that in perspective, I want to walk you through three fairly wildly different customer use cases for how some of them are taking advantage of this hyper-scale capability.
The first one I want to talk about is a customer named Milliman.  Milliman is one of the world’s largest providers of actuarial and related products and services.  Milliman is using Azure to deliver an SaaS-based service called Integrate that provides actuarial modeling and financial reporting in the highly regulated insurance industry.
Milliman runs compute grids that are each up to 50,000 compute cores on Azure for each of their customers.  And they’re able to use this sort of immense-scale capability to help their customers stay competitive in the global life insurance market.
And one of the things I was talking with actually Milliman last week a little bit about their solution.  One of the cool things they said about it was they never, ever had to turn down a customer or turn down an immediate request from a customer in order to actually run a compute job.  And the hyper-scale cloud gives them that capability and that ability to grow their business in a massive way.
AccuWeather is another one of our customers running on Azure, and they’re one of the largest weather forecasting services in the world.  They were actually originally an AWS customer and then they switched to Azure to power all of their weather services.  They process more than 6 billion data requests every day for temperature and forecasts, and they use Azure for weather forecasting, as well as to power all of their iOS, Android and Windows device experiences.
And the last one on here is Heineken.  Heineken’s using Azure for all of its global marketing campaigns on Facebook.  And one example of a campaign, to put this in perspective, is a UEFA Champions League game that they built that was a viral game that they deployed through Facebook and supported up to millions of simultaneous users.
One of the reasons why they love the cloud is it allows them to easily scale up capacity when they need it when a campaign is popular.  And if a campaign is not popular, they don’t have any particular ones running at that point, they don’t actually have to pay anything.  And so it allows them to basically pay for everything in an on-demand fashion with no upfront costs or fixed infrastructure costs.  It allows them to grow their business even further.
Going forward, we think all customers are going to need this type of hyper-scale functionality to power their businesses.  And we think there are only going to be really three vendors in the market that are going to be able to provide this level of hyper-scale footprint:  Microsoft, Amazon and Google.
And we basically plan to differentiate from the other two by the level of enterprise-grade support we provide as well as the unique hybrid solutions that we deliver that enables enterprises to deliver integrated business.
Gartner this spring updated its Magic Quadrant surveys for cloud and credited Microsoft as being a leader in their infrastructure as a service, enterprise application platform as a service, public cloud storage services and X86 virtualization magic quadrants.
In fact, Microsoft is the only leader in all four of the cloud magic quadrants that Gartner delivers.  Amazon is, in fact, only in two of those quadrants, and I believe Google is in none of them.
Last month, we released our new D family of virtual machine sizes on Azure.  These have 60-percent-faster CPUs, support more memory configuration and provide local SSD storage.  And having this level of performance is critical for running any type — delivering an enterprise-grade level of experience.
One of the things we’re excited to announce today is our new G family of virtual machine sizes as well.  These are optimized for data workloads and use the very latest Intel Xeon processors.  They have up to 32 CPU cores of compute capability, 450 gigabytes of RAM and more than 6.5 terabytes of local SSD storage.
They provide the largest virtual machine sizes in the public cloud.  To put it in some perspective, this is our largest G series, has more than twice the amount of memory of the largest AWS virtual machine and more than four times the amount of memory of the largest Google Compute virtual machine.  We, ultimately, think this is going to allow enterprises to run even greater workloads.
Today, we’re also excited to announce our new Azure Premium Storage offering.  And this allows customers to use remote durable storage with their virtual machines.  Our new Azure Premium Storage offering will support up to 32 terabytes of storage per virtual machine.  And customers will be able to drive more than 50,000 IOPS off of each virtual machine.  To put that in perspective, that’s an immense amount of I/O activity.  It’s actually, I think, believed greater than any other storage offering from any of the other cloud providers.
And we’re going to provide it with very fast latency.  In fact, sub-millisecond latency for all read operations.  The combination of these new virtual machine sizes together with a Premium Storage offering delivers really an unparalleled degree of performance in the cloud.  Customers have never before been able to stand up this type of power literally in seconds with just a button click, and it’s going to enable even more workloads, including workloads that have not previously been virtualized and need to run on bare metal hardware to not only run in a virtualized environment, but do so in the cloud with much greater economic savings and with much more agility.
So talk about some of our hyper-scale customers.  Let me walk through a couple of our enterprise-grade customers as well and talk about why they’re betting on Azure and our cloud solutions.
GE Healthcare is one of them.  And they provide the ability for customers to collect, analyze and report healthcare data in the cloud.  They have deployed multiple applications on Azure while meeting the most stringent of regulatory requirements.
First American Financial provides closing insurance services for title companies.  And they worked with a local startup that’s based here in the Valley, which is DataStax, to basically store and allow users to search property record information in Azure.  Ultimately, they plan to actually store and process more than 18 billion title documents across the U.S.
And Takanaka is one of the largest construction companies and general contractors in Japan.  And they’re starting to deliver IOT solutions using Azure.  And they’re able to aggregate data from sensors that they install all throughout their high-rise buildings throughout Japan, and then they’re using machine learning using our Azure Machine Learning service to analyze this data to do even better property management.
Those are just a couple of the examples, I think they kind of highlight some of the use cases that having enterprise-grade capability, both on the performance side, the security side, the regulatory side and the availability side really enables.
Microsoft’s also the only hyper-scale cloud provider with software that runs not only in the public cloud, but as Satya mentioned a little bit earlier, also inside on-premises datacenter environments.  This enables customers to maximize their deployment reach and deliver the types of integrated hybrid solutions that enterprises really value.
We now at Microsoft deliver a suite of capabilities and solutions that enable customers to easily connect and integrate literally every on-premises environment to the cloud.  Customers can add backup, tiered storage, disaster recovery services to any existing infrastructure, not just Hyper-V and Windows-based systems, but also Linux systems, VMware systems, and bare metal systems as well.
They can use a common identity security solution using Azure Active Directory that allows them to span a single security architecture across both their on-premises applications as well as the devices and applications they host in the cloud.
And with our new ExpressRoute networking service, customers can basically ensure that all the traffic that flows between their on-premises datacenters and Azure run over private, dedicated network fiber, which gives them total security as well as guaranteed network quality of service.
Microsoft is also the only hyper-scale cloud provider committed to delivering a consistent cloud experience across the public cloud, on-premises datacenters, as well as service-provider environments.
This enables customers to adopt a cloud-based architecture today and enable them to deploy these solutions at any point, anywhere around the world.
We previously enabled this type of experience using our Azure Pack software solution that customers can download and run on top of their existing hardware.
Today, we’re excited to announce that we’re going even further and also delivering a full, integrated hardware plus software solution.  We call this solution our Cloud Platform System, and it’s a fully integrated hardware and software solution that enables enterprises as well as service-provider environments to benefit from all of the learnings that we’ve had in terms of running our public cloud and be able to bring that scalability and efficiency into their own datacenters.
It delivers a consistent, Azure-based management portal, consistent management set of APIs, the same as what we have in our public cloud, the same hypervisor and many of the core same features that Azure delivers as well, including all of our IaaS as well as Web-based application services.
And it basically enables enterprises to step into the cloud with even greater control and build solutions that will work not only within their own datacenters, but within ours as well.  And we’re partnering with Dell to deliver the hardware for this new solution, and it will be available starting next month.
Let’s talk about a few of the customers that are taking of this type of hybrid capability.  First I want to talk about is one that’s actually taking advantage of our cloud platform system today, and that’s General Dynamics.
General Dynamics builds and manages IT systems for some of the most security-conscious and sensitive customers in the world.  In particular, U.S. government agencies as well as defense contractors.
And the company’s looking to use our cloud platform system as a way to quickly and securely move U.S. government customers to the cloud while giving them a range of cloud scenario options.  It allows them to reuse their existing datacenter facilities or take advantage of the services that we offer in Azure, in particular with our U.S.-government-based cloud that were also opened up this year.
Lufthansa and Mazda are two other great hybrid customers.  They’re taking advantage of the cloud and Azure specifically to enable disaster recovery solutions for their existing on-premises systems.
As an example, using Azure enabled Mazda to save more than 95 percent from their data protection costs, and allows them to reuse the same set of skills, the same IT professionals as they run inside their datacenters today with our public cloud environment as well.
So hyper-scale, enterprise-grade, hybrid.  Microsoft’s the only cloud that delivers on all three.  And combined, they provide a truly unique offering that enables a set of solutions that are differentiated for customers and provides enormous opportunities to help them as well as all the ISVs and startups that serve them to grow their business.
Now, the cloud really lights up when you run great applications on top of it.  And Satya mentioned earlier, we’re working hard to enable the development of these next-generation applications on top of our cloud.
Last week, we made several important announcements about how we’re embracing Docker as a core part of our application and infrastructure set of investments.  We think container-based approaches like Docker will be great both to increase server density and enable existing applications to run even more cost-effectively on fewer amounts of infrastructure.
But we also think this type of container-based approach helps dramatically with the development of next-generation applications and enable them to be deployed even more efficiently as well.
And we’re really excited to be able to partner with Docker and the Docker community to deliver these types of experiences for Linux.  We’re also integrating these types of experiences directly into Windows Server, and then we’re going to integrate the Docker hub community directly within the Azure experience and inside our management portal.
Today, we’re continuing to announce and expand our Docker support by announcing support for the CoreOS Linux distribution.  CoreOS is a container-optimized Linux that runs with a minimal memory footprint.  In fact, CoreOS is — Satya mentioned we love Linux.  CoreOS is, in fact, the fifth Linux distribution we now offer on Azure with enterprise support.  And we’re really excited to see all the great applications that we know will be built with it.
Now, our strategy as mentioned earlier is to have a cloud that really has no limits.  Customers can use any device, any OS, any data, any programming language, and this enables not only enterprises but also startups and ISVs that want to target them to use all of the tools and technologies that they’re already familiar with, and all of them will feel totally comfortable in the Microsoft Cloud.
Having both of these segments, all three of these segments in the Microsoft Cloud also, ultimately, enables a rich ecosystem where enterprises, ISVs and startups can meet and work together to drive businesses forward.
I talked earlier about the work that DataStax is doing with First American Financial where they’re taking their Cassandra-based services and enabling them to use it to power that enterprise forward.
I talked about some of the services that GE Healthcare and Milliman are using and providing to their customers in order to help drive their health and actuarial firm businesses forward as well.
These engagements are just a few examples of the types of virtuous cycles that we think can really develop using the Microsoft Cloud, where enterprises become more successful, and the startups and ISVs can really grow their business in dramatic fashion.  And we’re really excited to see these relationships starting to form in eagerness across Azure.  And as Satya mentioned earlier, it’s one testament to that success that over 40 percent of our overall Azure revenue now comes actually from startups and ISVs.
To help accelerate these relationships even more, one of the other things we’re excited to announce today is our new Azure Marketplace.  It provides a host of VMs, apps and services that any customer will be able to easily browse, purchase and for the ISV and for the startup building them, monetize.  We think it will help accelerate the connection of enterprises to ISVs and startups, and we’re really looking forward to seeing some of the great solutions that we know are going to be built with it.
What I’d like to do is invite one of our close partners on stage, which is Cloudera, specifically Mike Olson, who is the co-founder and chief strategy officer, to talk about the new Azure Marketplace and Cloudera running in it.  Thanks, Mike.
  Thank you, Scott, and thank all of you.
Cloudera is a big data company.  Big data represents an enormous opportunity and an enormous challenge to the enterprises that we work with.
As the leader in the big data space, specifically the leader on Apache Hadoop, Cloudera has been in business for more than six years making that platform consumable, easy to operate, easy to deploy, easy to use.
To date, most of our customers have built large infrastructure on-premises to run those systems, but there’s increasing interest in public cloud deployment, and in hybrid cloud deployment, because infrastructure running in the datacenter needs to connect to infrastructure in the public cloud.
Today, with Microsoft we’re announcing the availability of Cloudera on Azure.  This we believe is for our customers a major step forward in making the platform more consumable still.
I want to show you briefly what it is that we’ve done, and I want to talk to you about why it matters.
You can see on the screen here that we’ve got the Microsoft Azure portal.  And up at the top I’ve got the Microsoft Azure marketplace.  I can select the marketplace in order to look for services that are interesting to me.
Now, I happen to care about data, storage cache, backup services.  You’ll notice that Cloudera Enterprise is one of the options now available for deployment on Microsoft Azure.
I’ve filled in the fields on my Azure instance creation dashboard with the right names and the right identity.  I’ve entered my credentials to allow me to spin up this Azure cluster.
You can see that I’m able, if I want, to enable high availability.  I can set up my Cloudera instance on Azure so that it takes advantage of the replication built into Azure to survive failures in a very robust way.
I go down here and I click on the Create button, and I’m spinning up now an instance of Cloudera running on Azure.
If I go back to the Azure home screen, I can take a look at the various dashboards that I’ve got available.  I can look at the Azure Cloudera demo instance here and see the cluster that I’ve spun up with the different machines that have been allocated and created for me, initialized by Azure, configured and operated by the Cloudera infrastructure.
And I can look at specific machines.  You can see here I’ve got a number of machines spun up.  They’re not doing much right now, no surprise.  I’ve got plenty of capacity to go work on data.
This is a 90-core instance of Cloudera spun up in the public cloud with the single click of a button, a remarkably easy, remarkably fast way to start Cloudera in the cloud.
This is great for those IT folks who know the Azure dashboards and instances, but, you know, at Cloudera we deliver management, monitoring operations as well.  You need to be able to set and enforce security policies.  You care about data lineage, who touched it, what did they do with it, how did they transform it, for operational and for compliance purposes.
Using Cloudera’s native tooling, Cloudera Manager, Cloudera Navigator, you’re able to observe your platform, take care of it, be sure that it’s operating well, set and hit the Service Level Agreements that your business users require.
Now, everything you’ve seen so far makes the IT staff absolutely happy.  They love being able to spin up these clusters so easily.
But big data isn’t just storing, processing, transforming, analyzing.  It’s interacting with users as well.
One of the most exciting opportunities that we see in working with Microsoft is Microsoft’s suite of analytic and data processing and exploration tooling.  The most common BI tool on the planet is Microsoft Excel.  We’ve connected Excel to Cloudera Impala via ODBC so that I can extract, explore, work with all of the powerful tooling in the Excel product that I know well, in order to understand my big data.  I can run those queries and work with that data live.
We’ve set up dashboards in the Power BI suite that Microsoft offers, from data that’s managed in the Cloudera cluster, not a month’s worth, not a quarter’s worth, but 10 years’ worth of retail data available to me in detail, every single point-of-sale transaction that my retail institution has done over that time.
And I can use natural language queries to explore this data.  So if I want to know what my in-stock percentage is, I can simply ask, and you’ll see 97.8 percent.  That seems pretty good.  But, you know, I’m interested in what happened in my Little Rock store by day, and I’d really like to see — you know, I’ve got a curious falloff in in-stock availability at the tail end of the year.  That’s kind of Thanksgiving to Christmas.  Maybe there was a lot of shopping going on.  But I’ll probably want to talk to the store manager to understand what’s happening there.
Now, I’m not really a retail analyst.  I don’t know if you folks realize that.  And I don’t expect you all care very much about retail analytics beyond the fact that the powerful query tools are available here.
Let me tell you about why we’re so excited about this relationship and why we think it matters.  I mentioned before we’ve got lots of customers with big data infrastructure in their private clouds back at home.  We believe data is going to live where it’s born.  You heard Scott talk about GE Healthcare, with enormous datasets in the cloud.
If we’re going to realize our vision of unlocking the value of big data, we’ve got to run in the public cloud.  We’ve got to be where that data is.
By embracing Azure, by making sure that Cloudera runs in a fantastic, easy-to-use way on Azure, we unlock that value.  We’re able to combine our back-end tooling with the fantastic Microsoft user interfaces, exploratory tools, to deliver way more value on that big data than we ever could before.
This is a substantial strategic partnership for us.  It’s been fantastic working with the Microsoft team for the last six or eight months to make sure that we’re able to do this.
I want to thank Scott and Satya for the opportunity, and I want to thank all of you for your attention today.  Thanks very much.
  So that gives you a great example in Cloudera’s use of Microsoft cloud and the completeness of it.  They were able to take advantage of the hybrid support, the hyper-scale support, to be able to spin up a Cloudera instance on Azure.  And perhaps most importantly they were able to not only do the big data processing but they were able to take that output from big data and connect it to users inside of an organization through integration with Office 365, Excel and Power BI.
That is what makes the Microsoft cloud the most complete cloud.  That is what gives Microsoft cloud the uniqueness.
And so we’re very, very happy to work with all of our partners to not only give them the opportunities to serve the customers that we jointly are working with but ultimately enable businesses to take advantage in every vertical, in every geography, with every size, to be able to take the advantage of power of the cloud to drive their business forward.
Thank you so much for joining today on the webcast.  So we’ll end the webcast at this point.  Thanks a lot.
 Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome to the stage Microsoft corporate vice president Jason Zander. 
 Well, good morning, everybody, and welcome to TechEd. We’re very happy to have you here.
We’ve lined up a really great conference this week. We’ve got tons of great speakers and great sessions. We’ve got some fun here as well. So I really hope you enjoy the week.
Now, I’ve spent 22 years at Microsoft working on platforms, especially for the enterprise and things that we do here every day. And because of working on that type of environment, TechEd is actually one of my favorite shows that we do or conferences that we pull together, because everybody in this audience are people that I’ve worked with for two decades actually, and getting feedback on our systems for our developers, as well as our IT professionals. And all of us have to come together in this room, so it’s great to have everybody here.
Now, our environment is continuing to evolve. We’re going to talk today a lot about the cloud and productivity and new enhancements, and we have also some announcements that we’re going to make and give that to you as well. I think being able to have all of us here is going to be a great opportunity for us to discover how we can actually work together in order to advance that.
Now, the first thing I want to do is start looking at some of the trends that we see in the industry, and I want to be able to start off talking about device trends and what we see there.
In particular, the last 10 to 15 years there’s been an explosion of connected devices. We’ve got billions of PCs and smartphones and tablets, and I’ve pretty much figured that with everybody in the room we’re carrying at least some kind of a smartphone or probably a tablet, maybe a laptop, and for many of us probably even some kind of a wearable on our wrist.
Now, the amazing thing about this is that’s just an amazing growth, because if you look, in the year 2008 the number of connected devices actually surpassed the number of human beings on the planet. That’s just astonishing. So we’ve got hyper-growth of connected devices in all of these form factors.
And if we start looking even further off to the right, we should expect to see trillions of connected smart and intelligent devices. If we think about things like Internet of Things and how that’s starting to transform industries, we can have in the next five to 10 years tens of trillions of devices out there.
And really what that means is that what we’re doing going forward is not going to be defined by the form factors that maybe we’re even holding in our pockets right now, but by new form factors and software and solutions that we have to build that haven’t even been thought of yet. So at that point, computing is going to become truly ubiquitous.
Now, if you look at this environment, what are we seeing? We’re seeing explosive and exponential growth, and across several different things. First of all, our users continue to grow, as we just discussed, and our devices continue to explode as well.
Now, we also have a significant number of new applications we’re using on those devices, and in addition to the ones that we have today.
And the amazing thing about this, as you start putting all these things together and you’re going to get an explosion of data. All these devices that we have are going to be generating a significant amount of telemetry that we can gain insights from, and it has to be able to track.
We also have petabytes, hundreds and hundreds of petabytes’ worth of data that we create in our own productivity suites and in that type of environment.
Now, with all that explosion of all these growth that we’re going to have, we have to have something to be able to power it and be able to deal with that. And we’re going to be powering that through the cloud. We think being able to have these two things together is going to be a requirement.
Now, enterprises today, we’re operating in this ever-connected and this cloud-oriented world, so our world is changing.
Now, we believe at Microsoft that where you bring together the device, in addition to the cloud world, that that’s really where we’re going to start seeing this transformation. And that’s what we mean when we talk about this mobile-first and cloud-first world. It’s a case where I can have my mobility, I can have those sort of solutions, but without the cloud it’s harder to be able to do interesting things with it. And with the cloud itself I can augment the two together.
Now, mobile-first in this case is about the individual’s experience. What that means is no matter which form factor you’re using, we want you to be able to have that experience follow you. So if I’m using my smartphone or move to my tablet or if I even have a wall-sized display, then my information and the intelligence around that comes with me.
On the cloud side we expect to be able to use the cloud to orchestrate that environment, so how do I get that state to move and migrate and to be able to provide intelligence for it as well? That’s what we’re going to pull together in this solution.
Now, at Microsoft we also describe ourselves as the productivity and platform company in this mobile-first and cloud-first world. And that means that we want to work on the productivity that we have for not only individuals but also for teams that are collaborating together, as well as for business processes and the things that we need to collaborate together as a team.
Now, I think a really great example of this from the individual side is technology like Cortana. And Cortana is able to go in and reason over all the data that is relevant to me.
I remember the first time I had my phone wake up with Cortana and basically say, hey, you’re headed across town for a meeting in about an hour, but I checked the traffic and I know where you are, and you’re going to be late. You probably want to leave earlier than you expected. And that was just actually kind of amazing, because I didn’t actually program the system to do that, I didn’t set up macros or rules or that. It basically just looked through data that was in there about me and was able to give me that right away. So that’s the type of intelligence that we think that we can provide in these sorts of systems.
Now, we can also look at apps and productivity there. If we think of Office 365 and Delve, the new technology for really being able to find and discover information across my Office documents, we can also look at Power BI and Dynamics, pulling together my business data in ways to visualize that and discover new things about what it looks like. These are also examples of having productivity, in this case working with teams and improving my business processes.
And finally, for all of us here, because we are at TechEd after all, we want to also look at the productivity for our IT professionals, as well as our developers. And here think about things like System Center and our management systems that we’re putting in place. Also think about Visual Studio and TFS and how can we get collaboration, for example, being able to run standups and scrums in our environment. Those are all important parts of productivity for us as well.
And we think that this new world is actually one in which we can transform all these scenarios, and we have a few examples that are here actually on the screen, for example, one in the Underground, basically a user of Azure with IoT and being able to track the infrastructure that’s used there and make sure that everything is running on time and be able to understand when there might be issues.
Coca-Cola working with these self-service kiosks, these kind of vending machines where I can look at things like inventory and control. I can actually make sure that things are functioning correctly and pull that data back through. So these productivity, these new scenarios, they’re going to span across industries in every geography around the world.
Now, I want to start off today by digging into the platform side of this, because we’ve long been a platform company. We have long roots with that.   And our platform vision is very broad. It includes cross-devices and cross-platform.
Now, we believe that every device is a great endpoint for our services, and a great example of this is having Office 365 available, for example, on the iPad. That means that you’re going to be able to use our services no matter which devices you’re using and no matter where you are around the world. But we also have a very unique and differentiated play, in particular in the enterprise and with Windows.
So we want to start off today by talking about devices, and in particular what are we enabling you to do in Windows and especially in the enterprise context.
Now, we expect to deliver an excellent experience and it’s going to span your digital work and your digital life.
Now, especially for the enterprise, because all of us here care very much about that, that means we also have to make sure that we’re doing an excellent job on creating a robust environment that is here and it’s compliant for what we need to do, no matter which form factor that we are enabling for these enterprise scenarios.
Now, to tell us more about this I’d like to invite the corporate vice president of Windows, Joe Belfiore, onstage to show us more. Joe? 
 Thank you. Good morning, everyone!
My name is Joe Belfiore, and I’m here from the Windows team to give you a quick look at what’s up with Windows 10. I’m going to take you through some of the way that we’re focused on enterprise value, and then I’m going to do a few demos as well.
First, let me just comment that the way that we’re rolling out Windows 10 is a little different than we’ve done with Windows in the past. We’re getting builds out early, we’re talking to all of you early, because we really want to emphasize a collaborative development process where we hear feedback from you where there’s an opportunity to factor it back into the product, where you get a chance to see what we’re building, and we get to an end result that we know will work well for all our customers and partners.
And today, I’m going to focus on enterprise. This first phase of Windows 10 engagement is really aimed at an enterprise audience, because we know that all of you need time to look at bits, and we want time to hear what your comments are and adjust as we go along.
I’m going to go through four things about our enterprise focus in Windows 10. The first is Windows 10 delivers a single platform across a very wide range of devices so that ISV investments, OEM investments, your investments will apply to the largest volume of stuff.
Second, we’re focused on building a product that end users will love to use. And we think this is super important within enterprises, because all of you have customers of your own within your own companies that you want to satisfy, and we’re going to help you do that on a very wide range of hardware.
We want to make Windows 10 great at providing protection against modern security threats.
And then last, we want a platform that for all of you gives you a way to manage all of your devices in a form of continuous innovation that makes sense for your business and for the devices you’re managing.
So I’m going to go through all of these four things and throw in some demos and walk through as we go.
First, with Windows 10 a key technology pillar for us is building a single platform technology that’s used across a wide range of devices, everything from small sensors that count the number of people moving through a subway station or measure the performance of a jet engine, up through phones, tablets, two-in-one devices, laptops, desktop PCs, the Xbox One and even giant conference room computing devices.
By having a common core, and by that we mean the networking stack, the file system, the kernel, device driver interfaces, and the ISV platform, by having that common core everybody’s investments in the ecosystem are leveraged and the most volume is brought to bear. That benefits everyone.
That means as you develop line-of-business applications you can use the new platform to target the widest range of devices and leverage your investment. It also means that the ecosystem grows, and when the volume is large we’ll see broad ISV engagement, which brings great apps to bear across the platform.
So this is a key part of the Windows 10 value proposition. And for those of you who follow us closely, you know this is not brand new. We’ve been doing this work for a few years, and already today Windows 8.1 and Windows Phone 8.1 share a common core, and they have a highly common ISV development platform, which we’re just now starting to see apps show up that target both as the volumes of those 8.1 versions of the product grow.
So that’s the first thing, definitely an important part of the value proposition of Windows 10 for the enterprise, but also broadly for our ecosystem.
The second thing I want to talk about that’s massive benefit for all of you and your companies in Windows 10 is our focus on building a product that regular human users will love.
And this is an interesting topic, especially if you look at the recent history of Windows. We rolled out Windows 8 and Windows 8 had some mixed customer satisfaction.   On devices where its UI was designed deeply for those devices, touch-first devices, customer satisfaction on Windows 8 is higher than Windows 7.   However, on your classic mouse/keyboard devices, customer satisfaction on Windows 8 not as high as Windows 7.
With Windows 10 our aim is to fix that. We’re working on the user interface, a core user interface that elegantly can target all these devices, including two-in-ones that flex, and I’m going to show you some details on that. And right now we’re focused on that core experience and really getting feedback from people who are using it, adjusting as we go, and I’m going to show you a couple new features.
In fact, with that, let me just move back here and jump right into a demo.
So what I have here, if we can switch over to the demo machine, is a PC running the earlier build of our Windows Technical Preview. And if you’re an insider, you actually have later bits than this, and I’m going to jump to that machine in a second.
And the first thing I want to really focus on is that large volume of Windows 7 users on classic laptops and desktops that probably don’t have touch but might, and I want to talk about the mouse and keyboard user experience.
Of course, this looks familiar with the desktop and the taskbar down here. And, of course, as I click the Start button I get a familiar Start menu, because in this mode we’re optimized for mouse and keyboard and this is the UI metaphor that literally hundreds of millions of people are familiar with.
So over here I have a tile for signing in and signing out, my power button, any apps or things that I’ve pinned. Here’s the system most used list, all of these things totally familiar to a Windows 7 user.
Similarly, if I open the Start menu and just start typing, and I can type EX, right up at the top the UI works exactly the same as Windows 7, so muscle memory comes into play. You can type EX and hit enter to get File Explorer. I can type EXPE and watch as it changes, because I’m using an expenses app frequently and that’s what I’ll get right at the top of the list.
Now, this provides extreme familiarity but we’re trying to do this in a way that’s elegant and adds user value. So today in Windows 7 you get apps and settings. In Windows 10 you’ll get Web services as well as you see on the bottom here where we’re expanding the functionality generally.
The other thing that we’re really trying to do is present in a familiar UI lots of additional new value. And so far in our process we’re only talking about that with regards to the core experience. And there’s more cool features we’ll be talking about later.
But in this specific example, of course, the most visual thing you see is the addition of Live Tiles to the Start menu construct. So here I have the familiar stuff that I would have had in Windows 7, and here I get some of the value that people are familiar with in Windows 8, but in a UI metaphor that’s familiar.
I have a mail tile here, and if I want to customize this, there’s lots and lots of flexibility that makes it possible for users to set up the Start menu the way they’d like. I can make that tile big. I can grab Facebook and drag it over here and attach it as well. Then I can take my Start menu and stretch the whole thing up to make it nice and tall. So it reflects the set of things that I care about as a user, makes my Windows system more personal, and makes me more productive and just enjoying my experience in general.
So if you take that idea, here I showed Live Tiles and adding Live Tiles to the Start menu, and expand your thinking about the principle that there’s lots of great value in Windows 8 that we want to deliver in a UI that’s familiar to Windows 7 users, Live Tiles are one example, but one of the biggest Windows 8 innovations is the new Windows app platform, the store app platform that enables things like sandboxed apps, it enables apps to be auto-updated through the store, it enables things like payments and commerce, lots of great stuff that today isn’t being used as widely as all of us would like because those apps behave so differently than regular apps. Well, in Windows 10 we’re going to address that as well.
And one subtle thing that sort of outlines this is right here in the Start menu, we’re blending new store apps like the reading list with classic Win32 apps like the command prompt or file explorer. A user does not need to know the difference. When I launch apps, they just behave like apps.
So as an example, I’ll open the mail app, which written as a store app today runs only full-screen, and classically is run in a separate environment, something that was confusing to users but something that we’re addressing here in Windows 10. So, of course, I could minimize this but in Windows 10 as well I can take the app and restore it. So I can grab this, make it a window.
And you see one of the things that’s nice about the app platform, the new app platform is that it’s designed to take good advantage of different screen sizes.
And what we’ve done is blend the benefits of that app platform with familiar UI for the hundreds of millions of people who are already out there and using Windows 7 or Windows 8.
And a good illustration of this is a feature that Windows 7 power users or intermediate users know, which is snap mode. So I can grab this mail app, for example, and snap it over to the side of the screen. It shows up there. I can set it up.
And I can also do that in a way that blends my Win32 apps as well. So here I’m going to grab the Win32 version of OneNote, and I’ll move over here and snap that right in there next to the modern mail store app.
The point is whether you are a line-of-business developer or a third-party ISV, if Win32 makes sense for you to write an app in, great. If the modern store platform makes sense to write an app in, great. The user doesn’t need to know the difference. Those technology decisions are independent of the UI. The system just works the way you’d expect based on the input devices you have at hand.
Now, I want to sort of evolve this conversation beyond showing you just the basics of the Windows 10 UI and talk a little bit more about power users, which I know all of you are.
When we did our September event to unveil this, one of the things I demoed was the command prompt. And that was unusual for me but I think you’re an audience that will appreciate some new features in the command prompt as illustrative of the broad ways in which we’re thinking about our Windows users and delighting them, even if they’re using something as old as a command prompt.
So for my quick command prompt demo I’m going to go in here to this mail message where somebody in my team has sent me a directory, and I’m having trouble with getting these shell scripts to work. And so what I’m going to do, what he wants me to do is send him a DIR listing from that directory.
So I can go into my command prompt, and I know the CD command, but now I can just press ctrl-V without thinking or without setting up — oh yes.  Let’s hear it. I felt the same way about this when I saw that, too. So I hit ctrl-V to paste. I didn’t have to go to some crazy menu or set up some funny defaults. Now I’m in this directory. I can do my DIR.
And now here’s another good one. All of you I think have muscle memory wired into your brain. If you want to select words while your hands are on the keyboard, what do you hold down? Ctrl and left arrow and shift. So here I can do that as well. I’m going to hold down ctrl and left arrow.  I can go up arrow and there I can quickly and easily select the text I want, hit ctrl-C to copy it, no need to go into a funny menu, go back to my mail here and just paste and voila, I’ve got a directory listing that I’m sending.
So the point is we’re trying to think about a great PC experience for all of the Windows users and customers out there, scaling from novices up through intermediates, even people that are using the command prompt and doing more advanced things, which I want to show you some other new features of.
I’m going to flip down here and show you the task view, which is new in Windows 10, and this is a good example of a feature that scales.
If you’re a beginning user, there’s now a discoverable button right there on the taskbar that lets you see an overview of all the apps you have running. So if you want to get rid of the send to OneNote app, you can open it up and click close, or I want to get rid of that command prompt, I’ll open it up and click close. Simple.
This task view also starts to make novice users and early intermediate users more powerful and more productive with Windows, because it adds a feature here like multiple desktops.
So down here I can switch over to a secondary desktop, and in this case I’ve got a bunch of apps running. And actually I’m going to switch over here where you’ll see — that’s a little bug — here I had this system set up for doing expense reporting. So I’ve got my Win32 Excel and I’ve got my Dynamics modern app.
And if I want to flip between my trip planning and my expense reporting, I could do that super quickly and easily by using discoverable UI elements as I’m scaling up my productivity.
But for power users this gets even better. I could switch over here and I want to show you an example of a situation where I want to do a bunch of snapping.   So I’m going to work on a PowerPoint presentation, and to do that imagine I’ve got a really big display like these enormous displays, so large that I can see four windows up. I’m taking advantage of great modern hardware.
Well, I can snap PowerPoint over here and snap assist tells me what the other windows are that are available on that desktop. And because I’m going to go from Word to PowerPoint, creating my presentation, I’ll just click Word and now I have those tiles up.
But if I’m an advanced user and I want to use the screen real estate even more efficiently, I could pull Word to the corner and then tile up with IE. And then I could pull PowerPoint to the corner and tile up with my file browser, and quickly and easily set my desktop up for maximum productivity on my PowerPoint viewing. And then task view lets me switch between all these tasks in a way that’s convenient and really elegantly scales up my ability to get stuff done on Windows.
Now, all of that stuff we have shown before, and if you are an insider that’s running our builds you’re already playing around with that.
But I want to show you two more power user features that will be coming in the next flight of our Windows Insider Program. So if you’re not signed up, you should sign up now, and you’ll get to try these two.
So let’s switch over here to our second machine. Now, this machine is running a newer build of the Windows Tech Preview.   And what we have, we have it set up here as a multiple monitor display.
And actually this is terrific timing. This morning, I was on Twitter and I posted a shot of the room and mentioned I was doing this demo. And somebody named Kevin tweeted back at me and asked a question, and I replied, “No, I’m not going to do a phone demo, I’m going to talk about Windows 10, and are you an insider,” and Kevin replied, “Yes, I am, I’m running the Windows 10 tech preview with four displays.”
I bet a lot of you are multimon users. And if you’ve been a multimon user for a long time, you know that some of the things that you have muscle memory in Windows 7 don’t quite work the way you’d expect in multimon. Well, I want to show you we’re fixing some of those.
So here in Windows 10 with my multimon display, if I want to snap a window, you would expect to be able to just snap it to the edge of the screen. And that works today except for the edge in between two monitors.
Well, in Windows 10 we’re fixing that. So here I can grab this guy. Actually, I think I just messed up my demo by shaking the window. Let me put these all back.   This is an early build. We’re used to that kind of thing.
Here I can move to the edge and you’ll see the snap preview where PowerPoint’s going to go right on the edge of the window. I’ll let go and voila, I’ve snapped PowerPoint on the edge of a multiple display.
Now, I could put Word over here. I can grab my photos and I’m going to snap them. Watch carefully on the edge. I’m going to snap them right here, and then I’m going to choose Bing up here.
And the snap mode now works across multiple displays. So for you, power users, with multiple screens and you have muscle memory, we’re going to make that all work across the board.
Now, my last demo of showing power users, here I’m going to switch over to this Surface Pro. And I think we should have — do we have a camera coming out here to see the Surface Pro?
One of the things that power users are getting familiar with is accelerators on a touchpad. And in the past, touchpads on Windows have really been done very differently, because OEMs do them. With Windows 10 we’re adding support for power users in a touchpad where multiple finger gestures, which all of you power users learn, can make you really efficient.
So here I have the same scenario. I’m working in my PowerPoint deck. I’ve got a bunch of windows, and I’ve got a touchpad. If I want to make all these windows go away, think of what your hand might do to just say, windows, go away. I’m going to use three fingers and say, go away. Voila, they’re gone. Now, I went to my desktop. Now I want to get all those windows back: three fingers, go up. Voila, they’re all back. Super-fast, super-easy.
Similarly, if I’ve got all these windows there and I want to see my task view or to go to a different desktop, I move my three fingers up and I see my desktop.
And then last, think about how you alt-tab, except now your hand’s on the touchpad. Now we’re providing a three-finger way to go left and right and switch between whatever window you want. I can scrub here. I’ll choose Word. I pick Word and voila, up it comes, really focusing on smoothing out the power user experience, making all these things work consistently on a wide range of hardware.
So that’s a quick look at how we’re focusing on a user experience that customers will love. And for you I tried to talk a little bit more about power user-y stuff. You’ll see a lot more end user features coming after the new year when we start talking about the consumer end of all this, but for now I wanted you to get a sense of all that.
The last thing I want to show here is a video that describes how this UI will scale on devices that are two-in-ones. So can we roll the video?
This concept is a design we call our Continuum UI. And I want you to imagine I’m using a two-in-one here. It’s in PC mode, so the keyboard and mouse are present.   And it works the way I’ve shown you in the demo. I get a Start menu, I get windows when I launch them.
But the key is when I remove the mouse and keyboard, and now my device is in tablet mode, you can confirm as a user that you want to use it in tablet mode, and now a few simple things change. The apps run full-screen. When you click on Start, it gives you a full-screen view, so you can use your hands to choose from a wider range of things. That’s an option that you can have wherever you’d like. When you launch apps, apps know they’re running in this touch mode, so their UI can scale up. And that enables things like writing with a pen or even writing with your finger. And then as you task-switch, you stay in that tablet mode, optimized for taking advantage of the screen real estate and your hand moving around.
Now, when the keyboard and mouse comes back, the system detects this, asks if you want to exit, and then it simply switches, leaving all your running apps the way they were, but now giving you the simple Start menu and overlapping windows.
So this leverages the things that Windows 7 users already know, Start menus and overlapping windows, as well as leverages the things that Windows 8 users already know, a full-screen Start menu and apps that run full-screen, but we do it in a way that’s optimized for the input devices that are present on the PC at the time.
We’ve been spending a lot of energy with our OEM partners. We know people are building a huge range of very compelling two-in-one devices, and we’re excited to make this a focus in Windows 10, because we think that PCs that convert, that are great with mouse and keyboard but also great with touch added or touch only, getting that right will dramatically make all those people who are productive with Windows way more productive with even more compelling devices in the Windows 10 timeframe.
OK, I’m going to change gears and talk about some of the Windows 10 benefits that are more specific to your IT audience, and probably to many of you as you think about managing PCs out there in an enterprise.
The first area I’m going to talk about is how Windows 10 will significantly improve the system protection against modern security threats.
And there’s three ways that we’re really trying to do this. The first is we’re going to enable you to secure the device and the code that’s running on any device you deploy.
The second is we want to give you some terrific tools that will satisfy end users and make your data more secure.
And then last, we want users to have their identities be secured against all the kinds of identity theft that we’re hearing about.
First, in Windows 10 you will be able to control the code that’s authorized to run on any device. This way of securing the device means that you by policy can decide that only signed code runs. That might be code that you sign, could be code signed by the OEM. You could decide that only Microsoft signed code coming through the store is allowed.   The point is this is a way to set PCs up so that it’s predictable what code will run, and therefore make the device more secure.
Second, we’re going to do a lot of work to help you and your users effectively protect corporate data. And this is especially important in a world where we see phones, tablets, PC devices sometimes being company-bought and handed to users, and sometimes being bring your own device. And we’re designing a system that will work well for both those cases where you authorize apps and user experiences to handle the data you trust, either on a machine that you bought or on a machine that somebody bought themselves and that you want to authorize.
So what I’m going to do is walk through the user experience here, because we think our particular innovation is in building this into the platform and working with the key apps, starting with Office, so that users have an incredibly smooth and easy experience, and in practice that data protection is used and your company data really is secure.
So I have an imaginary user here, a woman named Brita, and she has a new Windows 10 PC that her IT department has set up for her. This was a company-bought machine.
And when Brita goes into the Start menu, there’s actually a few apps that were selected by the company to be authorized for company data.   So, for example, her email, there’s a money management app, there’s a Contoso corporate app, those apps were authorized by IT to be able to access company data. But Brita can run other apps as well which are not authorized to access company data. This works for apps you write, apps like Office, and works for third-party apps as well.
And I want to show you how we’re designing the UI so it does what users expect by default, but allows them to do non-default things in a way that you set by policy.
So here’s Brita. She’s typing in the annual report in Word. She’s authoring a bunch of stuff. And because this was a company-owned machine, the default policy was set so that if she saves it, it’s protected.
Now, to illustrate this I’m going to go into the Save As dialog, where you’ll see there’s a Save As shown there where Brita can choose either a personal document or a Contoso document. As I said, in this case the company protection was set by default. So when she saves it, that document is encrypted, and you can see here in the File Explorer it’s shown as protected, and that data will not be able to get into any app that is not authorized by your policy, and you get to decide what those policies are.
So here’s Brita. Let’s say she’s trying to be a good employee. She runs Word. Remember, this document is protected. She’s going to select some text, open her Web browser and go to Twitter. This text is copied and when she tries to paste into Twitter, policy comes into play, which you get to set, and in this case because you chose to authorize Word as a company app, your policy is that this user is not allowed to paste. She gets a warning, pasting content is simply not allowed. So in this case Brita just can’t perform the task that would have leaked company data.
But let’s pick a more interesting and nuanced example. Let’s say that Brita is an employee in the PR department and sometimes she should paste from company documents into apps that you don’t authorize. Well, policy handles that scenario, too.
Now, imagine that the policy is set differently here, so when Brita pastes into Twitter, this time she’s given a warning, you’re about to paste content from a corporate document into somewhere public. This is OK but please give a reason because we’re going to put this in the audit log, and now IT has the opportunity to go back and see which people did this and why, and track the movement of company data.
This scenario is possible because we’re building the feature right in to the native platform, so all of you can use whatever management system you want to authorize these apps, and you can work with ISVs or write your own apps that you also decide to trust.
And because the platform is the same across devices, that benefit not only works on the PC but it will work on the phone and other devices as well.
Here’s OneNote. It’s a company app. It’s authorized. So when this user selects some text, copies, and goes into another app, in this case we’re choosing Word as an unauthorized app, your decision. Then when the user goes into Word here and tries to paste on the phone, they also get a message saying pasting is not allowed, again set by you as policy at your discretion to choose the apps, at your discretion to set the policy and the system participates in making sure your data stays safe in a way that users will really understand.
Next, I want to talk about how we’re going to protect user identity. And today, if you think about people’s passwords being on servers and hackers getting into company databases and all the press around this, we think there’s work we can and will do in the system to really greatly improve that.
And what I’m going to do actually is switch over here to another demo.
Today, you can do things like set up two-factor authentication with things like Smart Cards, but doing that can be a little bit cumbersome to deploy.
What we’re going to do in the platform is enable biometrics like fingerprint authorization to be a natural part of the system sign-in, but we’re also going to enable two-factor authentication in a way that’s much less expensive and easier for you to deploy and way more user friendly.
So the example I want to give here is a real demo. You can see I’ve got my Joe Belfiore account right there on the left, and I’m signing into Contoso. This is a domain joined machine. When I touch that tile, you can see there I am, Joe Belfiore. But for me to sign in, instead of typing a password into the PC, which then goes to Active Directory, is stored on the network, for me to sign in, instead two-factor authentication is set up with my phone and a pin on the phone as a second factor. So here I just sign in with my phone.
Now, I want you to watch. I’m going to touch click to sign in with your phone, and my phone will magically, via Bluetooth, recognize this, pop up. I didn’t have to find an app or choose a tile. It’s prompting me to use the virtual Smart Card, the certificate deployed to my phone. For demo purposes I’m using the ultra-secure PIN 12345678. I’ll choose OK, and voila, you’ll see there my PC is signed in.
So it’s convenient for the end user, it’s inexpensive for you as an IT manager because you’re not dealing with a complex deployment, and there was no password stored in some server on the Active Directory that’s susceptible to being stolen or copied or something. The PIN was on my phone. It’s a more secure system. It’s user-friendly and easy and inexpensive for you to deploy.
Now, the last area I want to talk about is how we’re going to enable Windows 10 to be managed by you, and sometimes by us but within your control, managed for continuous innovation.
We’re going to give you more management choice and flexibility in how to manage all your devices. We’re going to improve the app store so that you can use the app store infrastructure to deploy your own apps or apps that you license, and we’re going to enable the deployment of Windows 10 itself through in-place upgrades and dynamic provisioning so that it’s much simpler and easier for you to get out to your users.
In terms of management choices, Windows 10 devices, from phones to tablets to PCs, will be manageable either by group policy or via MDM. You can use whatever MDM system you’d like to manage BYOD devices. You can use group policy to manage devices. It’s your choice, and we’re going to make the system flexible enough to do either of those things. That’s the first thing.
Second, we’re going to make it much more flexible for you to use the app store infrastructure to deploy apps, either that you write yourself using the new platform, or to deploy apps that you license from third parties. We’re adding volume licensing support to the store with license reclaim and reuse so you can authorize which users get the apps.
We’re going to enable sign-in on Windows 10 to work with Azure Active Directory accounts as an option, no MSA required to use the store and the store infrastructure. This is probably the No. 1 feedback that we’ve heard from all of you on Windows 8 and we’re addressing it.
And with those new features in the store you can effectively use our store infrastructure to set up your own company store, manage licenses that you get from third parties or apps you write yourself across that wide range of devices.
And now the last thing I want to show and talk about is how Windows 10 will let you deploy systems in a way that will be more cost-effective, simpler for you and morefriendly for end users. This is essentially our focus on ending the era of wipe and reload.
In Windows 10 we’re going to enable full in-place upgrade from Windows 7 SP1 or later, and we’re going to enable dynamic identity-based configuration that you set up in your infrastructure so that a user can get a brand new PC and then go through the out-of-the box experience, the OEM out-of the-box experience, and have your policy and apps set up. And I’m going to wrap up with a walkthrough of how that looks.
Now, I want you to imagine we have a corporate user named Heidi. And maybe she’s in some remote subsidiary and you have her set up with Azure Active Directory or Active Directory, and you could tell Heidi, hey, go to the laptop you want to buy, buy the laptop, and when you run through the laptop out-of-the-box experience, because we’re paying for it, simply choose “my organization owns it.” Heidi will choose next.
Part of the signup, part of the out-of-the-box experience is a sign-in. In this case Heidi’s going to type her Contoso credential. The system’s going to recognize, oh, this is a corporate managed machine. Your branding is shown. And your policy is already coming into play here, because you’re specifying that these users need to sign in with two-factor authentication. So the system recognizes this, prompts Heidi to enter a verification code, which you set up to be texted to her phone.
So she types that in, and then when she chooses sign-in, that PC will get enrolled with your organization, all the policy comes down from the cloud, the apps that you’ve licensed and put in the store and want preinstalled will all come down, and voila, when Heidi signs in she gets a Start menu that’s customized for her, with the policies set, with the corporate data protection we already talked about, with the user credential system that we already talked about, all set up in a way that you never even had to touch the PC in order for those benefits to be given to your user.
And when Heidi runs apps, whether they’re store apps like this Contoso app or when she visits apps on the Web that you authorize, single sign-on comes into play so that her user identity and credentials are available to apps as well, and she gets a terrific seamless experience, putting together everything I showed.
So that’s my quick Windows 10 look. I want to encourage all of you, if you’re not already, to go install our preview builds. You can get the Pro edition at Preview.Windows.com, or the enterprise edition at the URL you see on TechNet.   Today, the difference between those is the same as it is on Windows 8. Either is fine to try, and you can sign up and get all of our flighting options and see the features I showed.
Thanks very much, and we look forward to working with all of you more on Windows 10. 
 Hey, thanks, Joe. That was awesome. We’re really excited as a longtime user of Windows to get this new version out there. And I think I can speak for all the power users in this room, including myself, more command line love is always a good thing.
Now what we want to talk about next is we’re going to transition off of devices and we’re going to start talking about the cloud components as well.
Now, the cloud is going to power that exponential growth that we talked about, about users and devices, apps and all the data. We’re going to be collecting massive, massive amounts of data, and it means we’re going to have to also figure out how to deal with that, manage it and gain insights from it.
We’re going to have to used advanced functionality, things like machine learning, and we’re going to have to be able to deploy that and be able to understand how that’s going to help us.
Now, that’s the motivation behind Microsoft cloud and in particular the platform components.
Now, when we think about the Microsoft cloud, we want to empower every business across every industry and every geography through the cloud. It’s a very expansive version for the Microsoft cloud. It includes Office 365, Dynamics, as well as Azure, and we’re powering all of the cloud systems that we’ve built, and we’ve been doing this and building services for over 10 years and powering that with Azure. And I want to spend some more time talking about the cloud, and we’re going to talk about all the examples that we have for the cloud today.
Now, the next thing I want to do, though, before we get there is let’s talk a little bit about how we need to evolve our infrastructure, because I think everyone in here is probably facing a lot of tough questions we have to deal with.
We have that massive new data but we’re also being asked to improve agility, agility of everybody here, as well as the people that are using the systems that we’ve deployed.
At the same time, we have to increase and work on security, and we care a lot about data privacy. That’s a super important thing for us, our users, as well as our corporations.
We also want to be able to reduce costs and at the same time increase flexibility for everyone. I mean, that’s an interesting equation because when I start balancing for one thing I may cause tension on something else.
Now, at the same time as we’re doing all this, the pace of innovation is just advancing at a dizzying rate. I mean, right now there’s a set of workloads that we’ve learned to run and deploy and optimize, and we’ve been using those for a long time. We’ve been very successful.
And at the same time, we’re getting brand new workloads that are being created to solve these issues with massive amounts of data and scale-out and recoverability. Some of these are being designed for the cloud data points.
What that means is we’re going to have new workloads that are going to be created that we don’t even know about yet, that we’re going to have to make sure that our infrastructure and processes are able to handle that.
Now, I do believe that businesses that are able to navigate this transition are going to be not only just successful but they’re going to thrive in this environment.   And, in fact, I think we’re seeing a lot of disruption in the industry right now where smaller shops are able to come in and be able to use some of this technology to their advantage.
Now, when we think about what we’re doing for the cloud, that means bringing the cloud across the way that you would like it. We start off with one consistent platform. And our options for Microsoft cloud, especially when we talk about being in your data center, includes multiple aspects. The first thing is you can bring the cloud into your own data center. You can run a private cloud that you run and you control, and you have full control on top of it.
We can also work with service providers. So if you want to work with a trusted partner or you want to be running in another geography, but you still want to have that kind of ultimate control, then we have service providers who can work on this as well.
And, of course, we have support for Microsoft Azure.
Now, what does a consistent platform mean? At its core we’re using the consistent management framework, as well as the virtualization technology that gives you compatibility as you’re able to move workloads around. We have common identity with AD and Azure Active Directory, networking and data support as well, in addition to things like development for very common scenarios, things like doing dev/test in the cloud, or being able to do production deployment with my data that I care about that’s maybe privacy data. I can keep that on-premises and get the best of both of those worlds. And we do believe that these scenarios are really what people are trying to evolve to.
Now, when we think about bringing the cloud, there’s three things that we typically talk about, and these are capabilities that we have. It’s how we differentiate our value. There’s hybrid, hyper-scale, and enterprise-grade. And we think the combination of these three really produces a very powerful and differentiated experience in the market today. And I want to spend some time going through each of these and explaining what they’re about.
I want to start off first of all with where you’re at today. We’ll start off with hybrid, because many of us in this room, we’re already running data centers. We’ve got servers running everywhere with workloads on top of them, users and processes in place. And that’s where we are today. So what sort of things can we be doing in order to start taking advantage of some of this new technology?
Well, it starts off at the base with newer version of Windows Server and Microsoft System Center.   These are things that many of us in this room spend our days actually working on tuning, optimizing.
And we’ve been working for several years in a row bringing waves of brand new functionality coming out with Windows Server and System Center. We’ve got new functionality coming out in the next version of Windows Server as well. In particular, we’re making key investments in server around software-defined everything. And one of the things you’ll see, for example, is a network controller. This is something new that we’re building in as a role that you can install in Windows Server, and it gives you the ability to very cost-effectively get a network controller in your environment and run it as part of Windows Server.
And there’s many more support in here, and we have a lot of new functionality that’s coming. You can just see all the list of features that we’ve delivered.
Now, we’re also moving to a point where many of you are coming off of Windows Server 2003 and R2 and you’re ready to move on to the next version, to take advantage of these new features that are there. And we want to make sure that that is a seamless environment for you, that that’s something that you can take control of.
This site that we have here has a lot of material that you can use, and you can go back and discover, assess, target and migrate. We’re going to help you with that, so you can figure out where your workloads are, what they need in order to be able to move forward, and be able to take advantage of that. So I encourage you to take a look at that site and those resources and we’re here to help you with that.
Now, one of the other easiest things you can do to get started with the cloud is simply to connect your existing datasets and your existing server resources. Now, I can do this with everything that I already have, I don’t have to make major changes, but by you being able to connect to the cloud I’m enabling these hybrid scenarios.
For example, we recently acquired InMage, a company which gives us disaster recovery and failover, and I can use that with the cloud. It also gives me VM mobility so I can move workloads around.
I can use things like StorSimple as a backup device where I can actually install that and be able to take my storage and be able to put it in the cloud where the cost economics are actually very, very good.
With disaster recovery I can actually take my on-premises solution, and I can have it fail over to the cloud when I need it. Whether I’ve got a local issue or actually a natural disaster, I can keep my availability up the entire time.
And we’re also going to give you the ability to get insights from the server environment. And the key thing here is these are your machines, this is your data center, it’s your hardware. I’m simply enabling this hybrid scenario to get extra advantage out of it.
Now, I’m happy to announce today the Azure Operational Insights. It’s a new technology that we’re bringing out that actually follows this pattern I just described.
What we allow you to do is simply install an agent of your existing server machines, and we can start uploading, with proper scrubbing, your telemetry, your log data, things about how that environment is running.
With this data we can upload it into the cloud and we can start taking advantage of some of our advanced analytics systems, our HDInsight, our version of Hadoop, and we can actually go in and figure out how are things running and visualize that data for you.
Now, we’ve also created a set of ready-made intelligence packs. These things handle things like security and capacity planning, change management. And we’ve built these in, inside of the products. So by imply installing the agent, uploading the data, we’ve started giving you all of that intelligence right away.
You can also go in and do a fast search to be able to fix incidents that are there very quickly.
So I really think that for all of us in the room it means we can just immediately, we’ve had awesome feedback on this for people that have been helping us test this out, it’s really straightforward to get that data up there and the amount of insight that you can unlock is just truly amazing and very powerful, and we’re going to see that in just a second.
Now, the next thing we want to do, that was taking our existing servers and data centers and just being able to connect and get new power, but also there’s cases where you want to actually be able to take the cloud and the learning that we’ve had at Microsoft and bring that to my own data center as well.
And the first question is, well, why cloud? I mean, I have my data center, it’s up and running, I’ve got my software, I’ve got my automation, things are going. Well, here’s the thing: As we move forward, we’re evolving into more software-defined everything. Networking was a great example that I just gave. That’s a case where having these components built in is going to give you new power and it’s going to be cost-efficient. But there’s also those new workloads I mentioned, workloads that are taking advantage of PaaS and new cloud-oriented systems.
We also with the cloud systems have really built in self-service and elasticity as part of that, and so that’s a great environment, especially from a developer side as we start building out these new workloads.
So I do think there’s a great motivation for cloud, but again sometimes you want to have full control, full flexibility, which means I want to run it in my own data center.
And that’s why we created Azure Pack, which is an Azure consistent version of the Azure software that you can run in your own data center, and it includes things like a consistent management portal. In fact, it’s exactly the same portal that we run in the public cloud, the same code in both cases. It’s also a consistent management API so I can script against it with PowerShell or write against it with programming.
We also have the same hypervisor at the core, and you have many of the features that are there in the public Azure, including infrastructure as a service and a few other options like that.
Now, rather than talk any more about this, let’s go see all of this new technology in action. And I want to invite Jeff Woolsey up on stage to give us a demo. Jeff? 
 Thanks, Jason.
How’s everybody doing? Oh, come on. How’s everybody doing? 
Excellent. Well, we have some tremendous new technology to demonstrate, and I want to start off right off the bat with a brand new technology called Storage Replica. Storage Replica is storage agnostic, synchronous replication included in the box.
With Storage Replica I can set up standalone servers for disaster recovery, I could do disaster recovery between clusters. Or if I’d like to stretch clusters between sites, I can do that, and get high availability as well.
So let me show you.
Here you can see I’ve got four nodes, two nodes in New York, two nodes in New Jersey. What I want to do is I want to ensure that if for any reason my users can’t access the data in New York, that it automatically transparently fails over to New Jersey without any loss of data, the beauty of synchronous replication.
In addition, I’m going to take advantage of the new Azure feature as well called Cloud Witness. To do a stretch cluster you need to have a vote for the cluster quorum. In the past, this meant extra hardware, extra infrastructure, extra cost. Now we’re just making this part of Azure as well. So that’s an option to take advantage of the Cloud Witness. As you can see, we’re baking hybrid capabilities right into Windows Server.
So here is my file server. Here’s all where my data resides, and I want to make sure that my users can easily access this. And again I want this to be available in the case for failover.
So what I’m going to do here is I’m going to go in here, I’m going to access the file share data, and I’m going to enable replication, which is going to bring up this easy to use storage replication wizard.
I’m going to select my source log disk, I’m going to select my destination storage volume, I’m going to select my destination log disk, and literally in just a few clicks that’s it, I’ve gone ahead and I’ve set up synchronous replication. Setting up synchronous replication has never been this easy before. And again it’s storage agnostic. It works with any storage that you have out there, doesn’t require SANs. In fact, like I said before, it works with stand-alone servers. And just like that, we are finished and ready to do failover from one site to the next.
Now, the key there is easy.   Well, speaking of easy, wouldn’t it be great if you could harness the power, the scale, the data analytics, the knowledge that we have in Azure, and be able to package that up and give that to you so that you could run your own data centers, your own infrastructure as efficiently as possible?
Well, we think so, too. That’s why we’re introducing this brand new Azure service, Microsoft Azure Operational Insights. Azure Operational Insights collects, combines, correlates and then visualizes all of this infrastructure data in this very easy to use interface here.
For example, you can see each one of these tiles is an intelligence pack. Let’s start with a very common issue in infrastructure, change tracking. How do you know what’s changed? There’s so much change occurring that you can’t even track it. Whether would you go? Are you going to be looking through log files to find it? Well, with change tracking we’re going to find all that information and surface it up to you easily so you can see those changes by configuration type.
You can see over the last week just what has changed. I can see software changes, I can see application changes, service changes, all very easily without having to go trolling through logs. We’re surfacing this data and providing this insight.
Another area, what about threat management? Well, from a malware assessment standpoint I can see that immediately I’ve got nine servers with inadequate protection, so I’ve got some work to do there.
From a patching and system update standpoint you can see I’ve got 12 servers missing security updates, again readily available. All I did was install an agent and this data starts streaming and flowing to me. So all of this, very readily available.
Now, personally one of my favorites, capacity planning. How often have you wondered, how much storage do I have, how much compute do I really have, how much memory do I have, how do I know if I’m going to make it to the next budget cycle without actually running out of resources? Engineering has a whole bunch of new projects planned; can we actually provide the resources needed?
Well, with capacity planning we’re looking and tracking all of your historical usage so we can project those and give you what-if scenarios. You can see right here, oh my goodness, I only have eight days left before I hit capacity on my virtual machines. I’ve got some work to do here.
You can see here from a storage perspective I look OK, from a compute perspective my cores are fine, but my memory is actually pretty low. I only have about 28 percent of memory.
Let’s dive into this further. Wow, look at all of the analytics being presented here. Look at all the cores, averages, ratios, hotspots. Look at memory. Oh, I can see what’s going on here. This shows me now as I feed into the projection tool, wow, OK, now I know what my issue is. I really need to start looking at my memory.
So what’s really underlying Operational Insights, of course, is search. As you search, we want to make sure we can easily find and give you the remediation to fix any issues that come to mind. And one of the best ways to do that is to provide you your own personalized dashboard, because we know that there are going to be some things that are important to some of you and maybe not to others.
And, guess what, I love this, because you can look across many different vectors simultaneously. It’s not just CPU usage and memory. It’s high disk read latency. It’s memory utilization by virtual core. It’s firewall policy settings. It’s SQL backup errors. You decide what you want to put here and you can make this and customize this to be your own personal dashboard. And so in this way you can run and take the knowledge that we have from Azure, give it to you so that you can run your operations, your infrastructure more efficiently than ever.
Now that we’ve shown you how to do that, let’s talk about how you can manage your infrastructure in an Azure consistent way with the Azure Pack. So the Azure Pack has been one of the hottest releases at Microsoft. And the Azure Pack allows you, built on top of Windows Server and System Center, allows you to create your own Azure consistent clouds. So what you’re looking at right now is the IT admin portal. So I’m the person that can create run book automation. I can create portals. I can create plans. I can create automation. I can create services so that my tenants internally, and my infrastructure, can consume those.
Let me show you what a plan looks like. So here I’ve got a TSP plan, and this TSP plan consists of PaaS websites, PaaS SQL Server, PaaS MySQL Servers, IaaS virtual machines. So let’s take a look at our virtual machine clouds. And you can see again, this is all using my on-premises infrastructure. This is my hardware that I’m managing. In fact, here’s my System Center Virtual Machine Manager Server. So you can see that. I can establish quotas and establish usage limits to make sure that somebody can’t just start firing up resources willy-nilly. This is limited to ten virtual machines, 100 cores, 20 gigs of memory.
Further on down, you can see that I can do things like assign images to the gallery. And it’s not just plain operating systems. It’s operating system with services and applications running. For example, Web Server, Exchange Server, or SQL Server. So this is the admin side where I actually create those plans.
Let’s switch now to the tenant side. So this is where your users actually log in, and you can see, again, PaaS websites, PaaS SQL Server databases. I can create Hyper-V network virtualization, network is here as well. I’m going to go into virtual machines here, and you can see that I’ve got a number of virtual machines available. What’s interesting to point out is these aren’t just plain vanilla virtual machines. These are virtual machines configured as roles. And what that means is it’s a little bit more than just a plain OS, it’s actually configured with services and applications, Domain Controller, Exchange Server, SQL Server, all ready to go. So instead of your folks internally having to just check out an OS and then install a bunch of apps, you already do that and provision it. In fact, you can see I have SQL Server Domain Join. So I’m going to go ahead and close that.
Rather than go through the process of creating one, I’ve already created that Web server here. And you can see it’s got a core, and it’s got memory, and it’s got storage. And over time, I’m going to want to be able to scale this. So I can scale it up, and the way I can do that, I can simply go in here and say, let’s give it some more memory, let’s give it some more cores. But what I would really like to do is, I want to take advantage of cloud. And I really want to scale out. This gives me more resiliency as well. So I’m going to go ahead and add the instance count, click save, click yes, and just like that I’m adding a new instance on the fly and scaling this out all on my own infrastructure with the Windows Azure Pack.
So think about what you’re seeing here. You’ve seen Storage Replica, which gives you storage agnostic synchronous replication. You’ve seen Azure Operational Insights, and you’ve seen the Windows Azure Pack. These are very powerful cloud technologies. This is the Microsoft cloud.
Thank you very much.
 Great, thanks, Jeff.
Now, we wanted to go one step further than this, because you just saw Azure Pack working on your own hardware.   But, one of the things I’ve also found in talking to people is that going off and creating your own private cloud with limitations can sometimes be tricky. I mean sometimes you’re working with vendors that are giving you software, they’re trying to figure out which direction they’re going to take it and you have to spend a lot of time trying to figure out how to operationalize it.
So we wanted to take the learning that we’ve done, not only on the software, but also on the hardware side, and so we’ve just announced our cloud platform system. Now, this is an Azure-consistent cloud in a box. It’s an appliance that’s fully integrated with the hardware and the software pulled together. We think this is going to give you the ability to adopt the cloud with even greater control.
Now, what this means is by the time you order the Azure appliance, this CPS device, you’re going to be able to have it delivered, you energize it, you hook it up to your network and you’re basically good to go. You’re right at the point where Jeff was showing you, creating plans and being able to get that thing up and running. So you don’t have to spend the time trying to integrate the two. And we’ve done all the work over the last couple of years, actually, to go build this hardware, this knowledge, and integrate these things together. We think it’s an incredibly easy and straightforward way to get going, but it’s also incredibly powerful.
Now, in order to show you the advantage you get out of this, I’d like to take one of our partners that worked with us and show you an example of how they’re using CPS. Let’s go ahead and roll the video.
So we’re really excited about CPS and we’re partnering with Dell in order to provide the first version of the CPS appliance that we have available. Now, we’ve actually got it over in the expo hall. So I encourage you when you have time here at the conference head over to the Microsoft booth over there, you’ll be able to actually see CPS in person, as well as get demonstrations of all the things that you can do with it.
Now, we wanted to take this, as well, and so now that we have a solution we know that sometimes what you want to do is to be able to work with a hosting partner. You may not actually be running your own data center, or there’s cases where you need data centers in other locations, where you don’t have one, but you’re going to work with a partner on that. So we’ve also created the Cloud OS Network. It’s a network of hosting and service providers worldwide, we have over 100 partners in Cloud OS Network, and half of them are here in Europe.
Now, these partners represent over 600 data centers worldwide, one third of those are actually located here in Europe and they’re basically helping over 3.7 million customers every day. And so the CPS device that you saw there, or other environments can be enabled and those partners can enable that for you. That gives you the ultimate control over where your cloud solution is going to be. That means no matter where you live, or where you work, we’ve got you covered.
Now, the next thing I want to talk about is to move into this next capability. It’s called hyper-scale. Now, hyper-scale really recognizes the fact that over the last actually several decades our industry has really been defined by the scarcity of resources. We do a lot of work in order to manage how much capacity we have, how well we’re using it. Sometimes we’ll wind up overprovisioning in order to make sure that we have enough, but then we wind up with a utilization problem. It’s really been in that environment. And this cloud design point is actually saying, hey, what if you could flip that on its head? What if you could say, look, I don’t care. I’ve got petabytes of storage. I’ve got tens of thousands of compute cores that I’d like to use, but I don’t need them the entire time. Hyper-scale really reads on that.
Now, for Azure one of the important things for hyper-scale is having a global footprint. And what you’re seeing on this map, every little circle here is an Azure region composed of multiple data centers. And in fact, yesterday we just made our Australia data center available for the public to go use. And that brings us up to 19 regions. Now, these regions, each region is capable of running up to 600,000 servers.
That’s an amazing amount of capacity when you think about it. And just to put that in perspective, that’s nearly two times the number of regions that you can get with Amazon Web Services, and it’s six times the number of regions that you can get with Google and their public cloud. Also, the immense scale that we’re running on this really gives us scale economics. That means that we can afford to continue to cut our prices, so we can pass those savings on to you.
Now, over the last 12 months we’ve shipped over 300 new features into the Azure public cloud. This includes infrastructure improvements, but also higher-level services, like live streaming media and Azure machine learning. Now, we’ve been able to also include new technology both with SQL as well NoSQL options with, for example, Document DB. We’ve had amazing growth with this. Right now we are storing over 30 trillion, with a T, storage objects in the Azure storage system. We have over 1.2 million SQL databases that are hosted in the environment. We have 350 million Azure Active Directory users. And as you know, 95 percent of the enterprise’s identity is in Active Directory and Azure Active Directory allows us to be able to federate those, so I can use it in the cloud.
And we actually process 18 billion, with a B, authentications every week with Azure Active Directory. Every time you hit Office 365 you’re going through that path. We’ve also registered over 2 million developers with Visual Studio Online. And that’s a service we’ve launched less than 12 months ago. So we’re very excited about the momentum that we have here. It’s another example of that pace of innovation, bringing it into the cloud. And as we bring that in we’ll continue to take that experience and bring that along into our private cloud solutions, as well.
Now, we also want you to have very powerful VM combinations to run new workloads. So we just announced our G family of virtual machine sizes. Now, this one is optimized for data workloads. We have up to 32 CPU cores, 448 gigabytes of RAM, 6.5 terabytes of local SSD. It’s all running on the latest Intel processors. Now this thing is a monster. It’s actually the biggest virtual machine size that’s available out in the market. Now, to give you a feeling for that, that’s two times the amount of memory that you can get from the largest AWS VMs, and it’s four times the largest Google VMs that are available today. So it really is the biggest one that’s out there today.
We’ve also just announced support for Azure Premium Storage. Azure Premium Storage gives you durable storage for your virtual machine. We can actually go up to 32 terabytes per storage, for each of the VMs that you have, and we can deliver that with over 50,000 I-ops per VM. We’re going to do that with a very fast, less than one millisecond, read latency. I really think that the combination of these large VM sizes and premium storage gives you an opportunity to run workloads that maybe today you’re thinking I really have to run them on bare metal. But, we believe you’re going to be able to take advantage of this and be able to speed them up and actually take advantage of the public cloud for this case, as well.
I’m also happy to announce today Azure Batch Preview. Now, Azure Batch is a new service that we are releasing just now into preview. It’s job scheduling as a service. And we can do massive scale with this service. What this allows you to do is take advantage of compute cores so that rather than you having to do a lot of work and write a lot of plumbing for virtual machine pools instead we’ll do that for you. We’ll to do the job scheduling. We’ll do all the auto-scaling required for that. And you don’t have to concentrate on that plumbing. Now, in particular the useful thing about that is that since you’re running in Azure no matter how many cores you’re using, you just pay per minute for those VMs, so what you’re actually going to consume. So we think in that case you get very good cost-effectiveness, and it allows you to be able to scale up, to scale down and just pay for what’s required.
Now that we have all the system, we also want to have an open ecosystem that we can run this content on. And Azure has always been an open ecosystem that includes the operating systems you run, the languages that you write in, or the runtimes that you have and other workloads that are available to you.
We recently announced a strategic partnership with Docker, a brand new technology that is very popular for writing new applications, especially in the cloud. Now, it includes support for containers on Linux, and it actually had support already when Docker released earlier this year. So you can already run Linux containers with Docker orchestrating those.
We’ve also announced that we’re bringing a container technology to Windows Server. So no matter whether you’re using Linux, or you’re using Windows Server in the future, you’ll be able to use Docker to do the orchestration of those. You’ll be able to integrate well with the Azure Gallery, and into the Docker hub, and you’ll have great workloads there. And we’re very excited about that. And we are executing as a first-class member of this open source community, led by the Docker team.
Now Linux is also an important thing for many workloads that you might be running. In fact, one of our five virtual machines that are created on Azure today are actually running Linux. And we see more and more coming forward. We just announced the support for Core OS, a new Linux distro running to be certified on top of Azure. The Core OS is a container optimized version of Linux with a minimal footprint on it, which makes it great for deploying workloads. We think this container technology is going to be a great way to get great density, and also to increase productivity around development of new cloud scenarios in the future.
Now, we have basically 10,000 new customers joining with Azure every week. And you can see some awesome examples that we have here of being able to use the public cloud. I want to talk about two cases in particular that I think are very interesting.
The first one is Paul Smith. Paul Smith is a British fashion designer and a retail group. They basically have a classic IT shop, and they open four to five new retail locations every year. In this particular case, Paul Smith has decided to use our hybrid scenario. They run their own data center, but they actually can do disaster recovery up into the cloud. And that means that no matter what issues they may have, they can do the failover, and they can keep the availability up for their operations.
I also want to talk about Towers Watson, which is a global professional services firm. Now they specialize in making software insights available to insurance companies in two things, particularly modeling risk and making sure you’re complying with financial regulations. Now the next version of their application, the risk management financial modeling, is built on top of Azure Batch. Now what that means is, again, they can concentrate on the business value of this insurance business that they’re working on and not have to worry about that plumbing case. That means they can go after large customers that they want to tens of thousands of cores for a job. Again, jobs that may take, today, hundreds of hours to complete, I can get them done in just a few hours in the public cloud.
And because we have this massive scale, you never have to say no to a customer. We have that. You can use it. And when you’re done with it, you can actually just dial it back down, and just pay for what you actually use. So it increases the numbers of points that you can actually work with, customers that are large and customers that are small that may not be able to afford their own systems. So it really does spread that out, and we’re very excited about that.
Now, let’s go ahead and take a look at some of this new technology I just described, and I would like to invite Mark Russinovich on stage to give us a demo.
Mark.
 Good morning, everybody.
So the first demo I’m going to show you is to highlight the scale-out capabilities of Azure Batch. And to do that I thought I would show you the limitations you run into when you scale up versus scale out. The application I’m going to open here is called Blender. It’s a popular open source 3-D modeling and rendering application. And I’ve loaded a model into it. What you’re looking at looks like just some grey blocks with a cylinder. These are actually going to be ice cubes with a glass. And what this rendering job is going to do is do some cool ray tracing effects to have lights come through those translucent objects.
To show you the limits of scale-up, I’ll start this rendering job here on this local system. You’ll see that it’s a little bit like watching paint dry, the speed of this thing filling in. What we’ve done is, because this application is so popular, integrated with Azure Batch by writing a plug-in for it, which is over here on the right side. Using this plug-in, you can easily take rendering jobs like this, and submit them up to the Azure Batch service. One of the things you do when you configure it is specify the number of infrastructure-as-a-service emphasis or the VM emphasis that you want that job to render into. You specify 37 here, and these are going to be 8/8th size virtual machines, which are eight-core, high-compute intensive virtual machines with a InfiniBand networking. The reason that I specify 37 is that the plug-in is going to take that rendering job and slice it into a six-by-six grid for a total of 36 tasks with one final task that’s going to stitch those images together to create that final image.
I’ll submit the job now by clicking on it. And right from here, again, in the plug-in, you can look at the job status. So this is it. The job that I just submitted, you can see it’s already cranking along, and it’s got 36 tasks with 37 virtual machines scheduled to run.
But you can also go directly, if you want more detail about what’s going on with that job, from the plug-in is jump right to the Azure Batch portal and see the status of the job and the tasks within it.
So this is the job that just has kicked off. If I click this open, we’ll see the individual tasks executing. And for each task you can see a nice graph up here. This is task number 30, of this usage of CPU, RAM and I/O as it executes. You can see the time that it took each of these tasks to complete, and you can already see that this final task, the merge task, is just about to finish.
If you want to take a look at the execution history of all those tasks and what they were doing, this job log here will show you that what was going on is these individual images, like image 10 was being uploaded to Azure Storage. And then that final task is taking, like said, all those 36 images and stitching them together. And that job should be complete now, which it is.
And the job output now is ready with the final rendered image in Azure Storage that we can download directly from the Web. And open it up and see our beautiful rendered picture. And there it is.
Now let’s go back and take a look at how the local machine is doing, and you can see it’s still got a ways to go. So we’re going to sit here and wait for that to finish and then move on. Just kidding.
Let’s stop that and move on to the next demo. So that was taking advantage of the scale out, about 300 cores were used there. For this next demo I’m going to show you some of the elasticity that containers give you on Azure with the Core OS Linux distribution that Jason mentioned.
Because Core OS is now part of our marketplace, you can come to the marketplace, the gallery here, find Core OS and launch and instance right on top of Azure, and then deploy Docker containers into it very easily.
Most people manage their Docker containers from Linux because Docker is natively written for Linux. What I’m going to show you for the first time ever in public is Docker client for Windows. This Docker port to Windows will let you manage your Linux Docker containers from your Windows systems. And in the future it will let you manage your Windows containers also from your Windows systems.
This command is the command that I ran just a little while ago to create what’s called a Docker Host. A Docker Host is a virtual machine or server that’s managed by the Docker client and into which you can deploy Docker containers. You can see that the name of this host is Azure Core OS 1. And that’s going to be the DNS name that we’ve got for the virtual machine in Azure that was created.
If I execute just Docker Host, this will show me the Docker Hosts that are under management by this Docker client. There’s three of them that you’re going to see, including that Azure Core OS 1 host that I created earlier. And that one we marked as the active one, which means that when I execute the Docker client commands here, they’re going to be targeting that Docker host. And you can see here the DNS name that I mentioned, Azure-Core OS 1.
The first thing I’ll do is create a container right from here into that Linux machine. It’s a Linux Ubuntu container. And it’s going to run a command, the Azure Batch command, the Linux Batch command, and then connect to that Batch command. So I’m connected into that Docker container running in that Core OS virtual machine in Azure. And if I execute a Linux command like TS, that will show me the processes that are active inside of that container, which because it’s in a container it’s isolated from the rest of that Linux OS; it can’t see the rest of the Linux processes, just the ones running in its own container.
The next thing I’ll show you is just how easy it is to launch images from the Docker hub into those Docker containers, and how fast Docker execution or container execution is. First, I’ll show you that that Linux virtual machine up in Azure has no active website on it. I’ve gone to it in the browser and there’s nothing listening.
Using, again, the Docker Windows client, I’ll create a WordPress site using the WordPress image from the Docker hub connected to a MySQL database container that’s already executing in that Core OS host, and have it listen on port 80 by default. Give it a second, press refresh, and there it is, my WordPress site where I can blog about TechEd, active up in that virtual machine. And that’s the power of the integration of the Docker Windows client with Core OS on top of Azure and Docker containers and Docker Hubs.
For the final demo I’ll give you a look at our premium storage capability. And to do this I thought it would be interesting to contrast it with our standard storage capability. I’ve got three virtual machines; this one has a standard storage disk attached to it, and I’ve got a tool here called Iometer, which is a disk stress test tool. And it’s going to hit that disk with a bunch of load, read and write load. And then show us in a nice speedometer the I/Os per second that it’s able to achieve.
You can see that it’s hovering between 500 and 600, which makes sense, because the standard storage service delivers about 500 IOPS. And so we would expect to get that. The second virtual machine is on one of our new D series VMs and I’ve connected a premium storage disk to it. Again, the same stress test, I’ll launch the test, open up the speedometer, you can see now I’m getting 4,000 IOPS, which is the performance of a single premium storage disk.
But, Jason mentioned in the slides we could deliver up to 50,000 or more IOPS using the premium storage service. To show that I’ve got another virtual machine here, another D series, but instead of one premium storage disk attached to it I’ve got 16 disks attached to it and I stripe them, so they appear as one 16-terabyte premium storage disk for the stress test program. And when I launch the stress on it, open up the speedometer, you can see that it’s actually more than 50,000, it’s close to 60,000 IOPS we’re getting. This demonstrates how you can take your scale-up workloads now into a platform like Azure and really get the performance that they need to excel on the Azure platform, and this 60,000 IOPS is the highest throughput of any storage service in the public cloud today.
So with that I’ve showed you containers, I’ve showed you the scale-out capabilities, the easy scale-out capabilities of Azure Batch, and finally the scale-up capabilities now we’ve got with our Premium Azure Storage.
So with that I’ll turn it back over to Jason and I hope you have a great TechEd.
 Thanks, Mark.
So you just saw the advantage of hyper-scale in several different examples. Now we think that there’s probably only going to be three public cloud vendors that can run with this kind of footprint. It’s going to be Microsoft, Amazon, and Google. Now, our intent here is to be able to differentiate, though, on the capabilities that we’re describing. That means, for example, the hybrid scenarios that we also showed you, none of the other guys have that, in addition to enterprise-grade. Enterprise-grade is very important for us. It really relates to our security and compliance work. It includes things like being able to run a very high resiliency on the compliance side, we think about things like article 29 support, especially here in the EU. And we’ll talk about more compliance later in another session.
Now, the other thing we want to do with enterprise-grade, though, is look at the breadth of the offerings we have. In spring Gartner updated their Magic Quadrant for enterprise application platform as a service, cloud infrastructure as a service, public cloud storage services and x86 virtualization. Now, Microsoft is a leader in all four of these. In fact, we’re the only vendor that’s actually a leader in all four. And again, part of this is because we really are trying to do a breadth of technology for you that gives you those options we talked about, private cloud, public cloud, everything in between. And this really demonstrates the value that we’re delivering with that.
Now, we talked about connectivity before, but we also want to make sure that you can do that in a secure, and a robust, and a resilient way. And so earlier this year we shipped Express Route. And Express Route allows you to extend your data center to Azure and can use over 16 worldwide locations and growing. We add more and more all the time. And in fact, you probably will see your networking provider is already up on this list, and if not we’re probably working with them. More will come along the way. This gives you a high-bandwidth, low-latency connection between your data center and the Azure public cloud. I can put a VPN around it. I can have full control. I can put domain servers and really anything else that I want. I can just treat it like a natural extension of my existing data center.
Now we provide this with an enterprise-grade resiliency. That means we give you two circuits. You can back up between them and make sure you have good availability. And we back that up with a connection uptime SLA of 99.9. Just to put that context, today Amazon has 12 locations and Google does not have an offer like this. And we think this is a critical offering in order to be able to enable this hybrid, connected environment.
Now, we’re also happy to announce today that the Azure marketplace is available. We’ve got a lot of partners that are working already and it is part of the Gallery. You can get their images there. Now, Azure Marketplace is a case where we’ve come and made it much, much easier to go in and be able to browse and find things like virtual appliances, virtual machines that are pre-configured, applications and services that you’d like to run. And we think this combination of bringing together these solutions that ISVs are creating to solve problems that we have, especially in the enterprise, that’s a win-win for both of us.
Now, the Azure Marketplace as of today and literally today is now open for business with a set of curated offerings that are there. We make it super-simple to get it up and running through VM extensions and other mechanisms, so you can get very, very fast deployment times with this.
Now, you’ll probably even see some names inside of this list that you wouldn’t even expected us to have worked with on Azure, but part of what we’re also trying to do is make sure that you have choice, and that for services and products that you’re already using, that you have access to those and it works in a first-class way. So we’re very excited to have the marketplace available out here. Go check it out.
Now, this wraps up our conversation on the platform side of this. We’ve talked through devices and Joe showed us some great features and we’ve walked through all the cloud value props and what it means to pull these two things together. What we want to be able to do now is transition, because having all this infrastructure, that’s great, but in the end what we’re really trying to do is enable users and new scenarios to show up. That enables that productivity that we talked about before, that productivity for individuals, for teams, and for business processes.
So we want to be able to talk about what does that look like for those users. What do we need to be able to develop? But, I want to talk a little bit first about what kind of trends we’re seeing and what environment we need to operate in. Now, really the world has changed. I mean, again, we talked about all these connected devices. The expectations of our users now is that they’re a global workforce. I’m going to be able to be connected anywhere that I go. I’m going to have access to my resources. And I want to be able to do that basically everywhere. We really have to make sure that our operations and our IT software solutions can keep up with that pace, because that really is what our user base is demanding.
Now, our workforce is also changing. We’re at a point where the new workforce that is entering today and leaving university and coming to work with us, they probably have never known a world that didn’t have touch screens for smart phones, in addition to tablets. And they work in a very collaborative environment, so a social thing as they do today, but they’re also expecting to have some of those same environments for collaboration amongst their teams. So they’re constantly connected. They’re looking for this environment to be a collaborative space. They want to be able to have and discover information quickly, instead of being stuck in systems where I can’t actually find what I need to be successful.
Now, I’m also bringing my devices with me. And I use it all day long, it’s part of my life, it’s part of my work. I have the same phone all day, whether I’m at a party with my friends, or I’m actually in a meeting, actually trying to pull up a PowerPoint or a Word document. So we really need to have something that’s going to give us that experience, but the thing about this is that it’s great, but it also introduces new risks, because this person unfortunately left their smartphone on the metro, they’ve got their contact information in there, they’re probably going to lose that, but that can also have confidential corporate information on it, as well. And that represents a problem.
Every year millions of smartphones are stolen or lost and we have to figure out what that looks like. How do you prevent that data from getting compromised? Now, we get into this balancing act, which is how do I make sure that I have a great user experience, that matches what I would like to have as an end user, so it doesn’t feel like it’s intrusive, and it feels like it’s just a normal part of my tools that I use every day, but at the same time exercises that control that we want to have.
Now we think about this, we believe the solution for this is to be able to implement security in multiple layers. That includes, for example, being able to manage the physical device itself and understand and set policies around how a device works. And you saw a little bit of this with Joe and we’ll show a little bit in just a moment. But, we also want to have great applications that I want to be able to use. I want to use the native apps for the data that I created, because that gives me the highest-fidelity experience, but I also need to control the app to make sure that it’s not able to leak confidential data.
I also care about the files that are underneath it, because at the end that is the data that we’re really trying to protect. We want this entire thing to be backed up with an identity system that can really be the substrate for this entire thing. We want to be able to pull this together and today some vendors will go as far as devices and they’ll create applications, but they may not do all of these layers. We believe we have an excellent solution for all of this.
Now our solution starts off by being able to manage the devices that you want to use, the support for Android and iOS as well as, of course, Windows. On top of that we build our identity system with Azure Active Directory and, again, that base that we talked about before of our enterprise users. And we provide a couple of solutions. One, Enterprise Mobility Suite, or EMS, and this gives me the ability to have software to go manage those applications, device policy, and all those things related to that. And then also Office 365, because it is the premier application for productivity, and I want to be able to use it but again have this flexibility around security.
And we’ve had tremendous interest in Enterprise Mobility Suite in the enterprise. In fact, we’ve grown our end user base by over 400 percent in the last year and it continues to just skyrocket. So I think this solution that we’re providing is actually proving to be very popular and very successful.
So happy to announce today that we have new Microsoft Intune updates that are coming to you over the next several months. These updates are going to allow you to do things we just talked about, like manage my devices. For example, I want to be able to manage Office 365 on my iPad and have control over that. I want to be able to set policies around those apps on those devices so I can actually decide how am I going to interact with it and how does my data work?
In addition to that, we want to figure out how your applications work with data. So things like copy and paste and other metaphors like that, and making sure that all my data continues to stay secure. That gives everybody here control over that environment.
We also want to promote the MDM solution for Office 365, Mobile Device Management. In this case, again, Office 365 is a premier application. We want you to be able to do administration tasks around that and the data documents associated with it. We’re going to allow you to do that directly from the Office 365 Access portal. You can also set conditional policy on your applications.
The most important, of course, are your docs and your email, how can you actually set data? What policy do we have in there? And if you do get to the place where that device that was on the metro actually gets lost and you need to deal with it, then we’re going to give you solutions that allow you to do a remote wipe of that corporate data while keeping the user data intact. And so that handles a number of scenarios that you may run into.
We think this combination of the Intune updates and the support for Enterprise Mobility Suite as well as the new MDM support for Office, it really is a no-compromises solution. It gives you the best of those applications as well as the controls, great for the end user experience, and it’s great for our IT professionals.
So what I would like to do next is let’s go ahead and take a look at some of this functionality. I’m going to invite Julia White up on stage to give us a demo.
Julia.
 Thanks, Jason.
Now, Jason talked about security across four layers, identity, devices, apps and data, and the importance of being productive and security across all of your devices. So I’m going to show you some recently released technology as well as some coming in the near future to help you manage all of your devices in a secure way. And that’s working across Azure Active Directory, Intune, and Office 365. So again, you can meet your security requirements, but also enabling that great end user experience.
Now one of the first things you need to do when you’re starting to manage a cloud app is get your directory connected. So something like Getting Started with Office 365, and that gets you on-premises directory connected to the cloud. And I work with a lot of Office 365 customers, and they’ve told me in the past this has been a reasonably complicated experience. Now I’m thrilled to say that is no longer the case. Thanks to Azure Active Directory Connect, you can literally get your cloud directory connected to your on-premises directory in six clicks. So you get that security and access control and single sign-on experience.
But don’t take my word for it, let’s take a look here in the Connect tool. And essentially this is a single download that addresses everything you need to do to get your directory connected to the cloud. Essentially it automates that process that used to be relatively complex.
So here in the wizard I just go ahead and agree to the terms, it’s that simple. Keep going. And it’s going to check and see what prereqs I need and install those for me, and then I have to add in my credentials here to connect to my cloud directory. And I’ll load that. And I’m just going to go ahead and use my express settings to keep it simple. And let me grab my on-prem creds here. So here’s my Windows AD credentials.
Now as you’re viewing that, literally with this click it’s going to perform that configuration and connect my cloud directory with my on-premises directory. It’s that simple. So it’s so much easier than it used to be. So I can now manage my cloud-based apps as well as have single sign-on experience. So really awesome compared to what it used to be on that front.
Now once I have Azure Active Directory set up, I can manage all of my cloud-based apps and have the benefits of security, auditing, reporting all in one place. Now you can extend that same experience to your on-premises apps as well, because increasingly you’re managing both on-premises as well as cloud-based apps. And you want that single control plane for all of your apps. Well, now with the new Azure Active Directory App Proxy, you can actually bring those on-prem apps right into Azure AD so you have that single control plane.
So let me show you an example of that. I have this SharePoint site. It’s running on-premises. Maybe I have some fully trusted code or something, so I’m not ready yet to move it to Office 365, but I want to connect it to my Azure AD. Well, now I can just do that very simply. So if I go into my AD portal here, into my Azure portal, into my AD area, you can see this is where I manage my users, my groups, and my applications. Now I want to add that SharePoint app that I have. Let’s go down here and add it. And I can just publish it directly. And I’m going to call this my SharePoint On Prem Site.
And let’s see, I’ll go there and check it out. And then I just let it know where it’s sitting. And it checks. So then literally with that I’ve taken that on-premises app and I’ve published it, I’ve connected it with my cloud directory.
So let me flip over to the end user experience. We can see that now I get that single experience for them as well. So as a user, go to one place to get all of my access to all of my cloud apps, but also to my on-premise apps, too, like this SharePoint site that I just loaded into it.
If I go over to my iPad now, flip over here. Great. Here I’m in my app site, and I can just click down here at the bottom. You’ll see I have that SharePoint on-prem site that I published, and if I load that up ‑‑ let me log in first, of course. It’s good to have the security. Now let’s get that loaded. There we go, there’s that team site that I just published. So again, giving the user experience a really nice single place to get all of their apps as well.
Now I just showed you how simple it is to get your directory connected and to get your app proxy set up. But now you can get your users, your groups, your cloud-based apps, and your premise apps all managed by and connected to Azure Active Directory. So that covers really quickly what we can do across identity.
Now let’s talk about device and apps security. So Jason announced some great new Intune capabilities coming. I’m going to show you the Mobile Application Management aspects coming in the next few months, because users want access to all their important information, particularly email and Office documents, so they can be productive everywhere. Well, and also since we’ve shipped the Office for iPad app, you’ve had a lot of feedback asking for people to be able to manage those apps. And I’m thrilled that Intune will be uniquely able to manage the Office for iPad apps.
And using the app management, it helps you to set policy for how the apps can interact with your corporate data. So, for example, which apps I can copy/paste into, where I can save as. So I’m going to go ahead and set up some policies for my Office for iPad app.
So here I’m in the Intune portal, in the dashboard. And I can set up my policies here.
I’m going to go into my configuration policies and grab those Office for iPad apps. And if I go in, I can actually configure and set up what I want to do and what I want to enable with these apps specifically. So I have set here that you can use these apps to transport data to other managed apps. So only managed apps can transfer data to other managed apps. And very specifically with cut, copy, paste, I’ll let people paste in content as long as it’s a managed app. So that way I make sure that people are only using these in the right way.
Well, then I can also manage the deployment of these managed apps as well. So if I go in here to my managed software, see here is where I have those Office for iPad apps with the policy embedded into it, and I can actually manage the deployment right from here. It goes into the My Portal app that my users can access from all their devices, and they can get these apps onto their iPad devices.
This is similar to what Joe showed that’s natively built right into Windows 10. Well, with the Office for iPad you use Intune to get that policy embedded and out to the iPad.
So let’s actually switch over and take a look at what that looks like for the user once they have these Office for iPad apps with the policies embedded right in. So I’m going to get my iPad here. I’m going to go into my Outlook app, which is a managed app, so I am prompted for my PIN, of course. So I can access it. And in here I have an email from Michael with an Excel attachment. So I want to open that Excel attachment and when I go to open in you see that I only get Excel, because that’s the only managed app that I have on this device. It’s not showing me other apps that I’m not allowed to use. So I as a user don’t get in trouble and put this in a different app. It only shows me what I’m allowed to use. So let me enter my PIN in there and we can get going, again, prompting me for security, because this is a managed app and I know that as a user.
I’m going to go ahead and get in here. All right. So here’s my Excel table and I want to copy some data from this and put it in another document. So let me grab this, nice big touch handles there, and I’m going to copy that. Now, I’m going to try and paste this into my unmanaged app, an unmanaged email app, the native app on the client that I use for personal reasons. And I’ll go ahead and tap in here. And you see when I do that there’s no paste option, because this is not a managed app. I cannot paste into it. Intune has managed that for me, again, so I don’t get in trouble. But, if I go into Word, which is a managed app and I tap in here I can see that there is that paste option and I can drop the table in just like that, because it’s a managed app. So the great user experience makes sure that I stay right where I should and keeps the data safe across all those managed apps.
Now, I showed you how Intune capabilities enabled that app and management policy with the new mobile application management. But, while I’m sitting here on my iPad talking about Office I also want to mention that we just released a fantastic new Office 365 SDK for iOS. So now it’s really easy to build iPad apps that connect to the data sitting in Office 365 in a great new way, and if you want to learn more about, that check out the developer foundation session.
All right. So let’s talk more about Office 365 security and protection. And when you go to Office 365 you get the benefits of how we run our cloud service, things like ISO27000/01, or the support for EU Model Clauses, or importantly and very recently Article 29 Working Party approval for privacy. And Microsoft is the only global public cloud provider that has been approved by the Pan-European Data Processing Authority for this. And just one of many examples of how we’re staying on the very front edge of security and compliance controls with our cloud service. And last, but not least of course, your data in Office 365 is fully encrypted at REST. So you have that assurance, as well.
But, it’s not just about the capabilities that come in the service, it’s also about the security settings we give you to customize and use based on your unique business requirements. And one key aspect of security is data loss prevention, or DLP. And DLP enables you to protect your sensitive business information, but it does this in 365 in a way that your user always understands what’s happening, so they don’t confuse or get frustrated, or worse, try and work around you. They know what’s happening. So let me show you what that looks like in Office 365.
So here I’m now in my Office 365 admin console in my reports view. So I have reports across all parts of the service, including what’s going on from a data loss prevention policy. So I can see which rules I have and what’s happening. So let me pull up a report that shows the different policies and here’s a reporting of this policy actually is getting hit, you see this is override, on a certain email policy. And I see that actually people are ‑‑ there’s a lot of overrides happening and I might not love that. I might want some additional security. So I’m going to go actually and add some additional security to this particular DLP policy.
So I’ll go into in this case Exchange into the email rules specifically set up. And I can manage all aspects of my Exchange online experience here, including here’s my data loss prevention. So I’ll go into that. And here I have my different DLP policies set up. And I notice this one, credit cards, so it’s scanning and looking for credit card information. And this one is what’s getting hit and overridden 14 times. So I want to maybe take some additional actions, because a lot of people are overriding, I want to put some additional security measures in place.
Let me go into that rule and in this case it’s people sending internally. So I’ll select that one. And within the DLP area you can see I have my rules set up, but I want to add an additional action. So if people are overriding I’ll give it some more security. So I’m going to go ahead and add some message security here and I’ll apply rights protection, add that, as well. And there are some RMS templates, rights management templates here
I’m going to go ahead and choose the do not forward. So if people do choose to override, they can’t forward it, the information can’t get shared farther than that. So I’ll go ahead and save that rule and get that set up. And you can see that I’ll I also have different workflows. So if someone overrides it’s automatically sent to some people in the organization. So I can set up different policies and pretty sophisticated things within my DLP rules.
All right. So I’ve got that set up and so I’m going to actually flip over to the end user experiences so you can see what that looks like, again, really important to make sure the end user knows what’s happening so they don’t try and work around what’s going on. So I’m going to go ahead and create a new email and send this to Steve here, and I’m going to copy myself so you can see what it looks like when you get it. And I’ll attach this file with some information in it, the customer info.
And you see as I’m typing, well before I hit send, I’m getting prompted as a user that something is happening, I get this policy tip here, and it’s hovering over and it shows that there’s credit card numbers. So I know what’s going on and why I’m getting this rule and I see I’m given the choice to override. So I’ll go ahead and choose override, and I’m going to send that.
Now, when I send that both the message and the attachment is getting encrypted and the rights management policy, that do not forward policy, is being attached to the message. And that way I make sure that the protection always stays with the content. So let me open that and you can see that I get the policy here, let me open this one to give you an example, the policy here, it says do not forward, can’t print, can’t copy, even my Windows snippet tool won’t work when I have that email open, because it’s got that additional RMS policy attached to it.
All right. And so this same experience, both the admin experience as well as the end user, getting that policy tip, seeing what happens, that is what’s extending now beyond just email into all the content that’s going into SharePoint Online, as well as OneDrive for Business. And in case you missed it yesterday, OneDrive for Business, unlimited storage, so a lot more content going in there. So we want to make sure you have all the right policies so your sensitive information, email, and content is protected.
Now, so what I showed you today is security and management across identity, devices, apps, and data, and that’s using Azure Active Directory, Intune, and Office 365 to provide you the security you see, while making sure your users have a great enterprise productivity experience.
Thanks.
 Thanks, Julia.
So at this point we’ve come full circle back around onto our platforms, including the productivity part. We also covered over the device and the cloud. And I hope you’ve gotten a good feeling for this mobile-first and cloud-first era. Now we showed several examples here and we think that examples like the Coca-Cola, the IoT scenarios that we have are going to transform and change the way that we work in the industry.
We’ve really only scratched the surface for these environments. In fact, right now we’re seeing transformation across all parts of the industry. I think there’s going to be cool new ways that you’re going to be able to solve problems with all the solutions that we’ve given you here.
Now, one of the important things for us also is to think about the next generation of technologists that we have. They’re thinking today about solving problems in a way that’s kind of out of the box from what we have today, new ways of solving issues. They’re also thinking about the possibilities for their own careers, and what does that look like going forward.
Now, every year we sponsor the Imagine Cup where thousands of students from across the globe participate in a worldwide student technology competition. Let’s go ahead and take a quick look at the highlights from this year.
So please help me in inviting up our worldwide winners for Imagine Cup this year, Jennifer and Jarrel, representing Australia with their winning application Eyenaemia. 
Good morning. Congratulations for winning, this is a really great accomplishment. We saw all of the competitors from around the world. So tell us a little bit about the application that you wrote.
 So our solution, Eyenaemia, is a low-cost, non-invasive, and easily accessible screening tool for anemia. So we’re both medical students and we thought about this idea when we were in rural Australia. So this is a place 6-1/2 hours north of the nearest city. So we found out that anemia is a problem, 2 billion people worldwide suffer from anemia. But, what we found the problem to be was for every person that walked through that door and was diagnosed with anemia there were many people out there that were missed. Access was a problem. So what we did is we created our solution which enables users, everyday users, to be able to take a selfie and be able to identify their risk of anemia.
 That’s really cool. And so tell us a little bit about the technology. We have all sorts of developers here in the audience, what did you actually use for the technology, the cloud, the devices?
 Yes. So our solution is actually built on Windows Azure, which is really cool, because this means that a lot of the reach across a wide variety of devices. For instance, that means that not only smartphones or webcams can accept our solution, you can actually build in SMTP gateways as well as MMS gateways, so people with feature phones, with low-end Nokia phones, or those brick phones that you have from the  era, you can actually take a photo and send a text, send an email to our server, and that server will analyze that photo, do all the processing offline. It means that we can run our solutions on any different hardware, and that means we can reach all the people in areas which have difficulty accessing healthcare.
 That’s really cool, because it makes it very accessible in all the areas, like you said, in the regions where maybe you don’t have the other technology. But these are medical students, so you joined this technology conference. What made you decide to join this technology conference with a lot of computer programmers?
 That’s a question that we’ve gotten a lot. Well, we’re very self-professed geeks, and pretty much we do business outside of the hospital time that we had. And we saw the Imagine Cup, it’s an international student competition, as a great way to be able to, I guess, combine those two passions that we have for technology as well as in medicine.
And we also believe that with technology IT is not just a single-cell animal. It’s something that you’re seeing every single day everywhere. And in the future the greatest technologists will be the people that can identify the problems and find those solutions.
 That’s really cool. You have a couple of thousand hackers in this room. So I think they really appreciate what you’ve accomplished here.
So just one last question for you. So what was it like to meet Bill Gates?
 So Bill Gates is very fast and very direct. He’s also a very great mentor and he gave us a lot of good advice. Not just generic advice, as in I like your app or I don’t like your idea, but gave us concrete barriers and challenges to overcome, told us exactly what we needed to do, what were the steps that we needed to take in order to make this have the social as well as economic impact that it could possibly have in the world.
 That’s fantastic. Congratulations again. And thank you for coming today.
 Thank you very much.
 Thanks very much.
 All I can say is wow. I mean, that is really cool, to think about that usage of that technology like that and be able to solve that problem, and especially medical students being able to think outside of the box on a solution and make that work. That’s super-impressive and it makes me want to go back to a bunch of those other scenario sand think about how I can do really cool and innovative things like that as well. So very impressive, and congratulations to the team.
Now, we’ve got a fantastic conference for you here this week. We’ve got lots of great sessions and great speakers. We think you’re going to learn a lot. We also want you to have a lot of fun while you’re here. I think it’s going to be a great TechEd. We’re really happy you’re here with us. Thank you very much.
 Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome corporate vice president, Microsoft Business Solutions Marketing, Wayne Morris. 
 Thank you. Welcome to Convergence 2014, to this community and this experience.
It’s great to be here at this unique moment in time where sales productivity, effective marketing, stellar customer care and dynamic operations all come together for your organizations through the power of unique business solutions from Microsoft. We’re going to spend much of the time this morning talking about this.
Welcome also to Barcelona. Actually, for many of you I should say, welcome back. It’s great to be back here together again in this wonderful city where we have so much to talk about and to learn together.
I’m very proud to say that since we were here last year, we’ve grown significantly. This year, we have more than 4,000 attendees. We traveled from 71 countries, all over the world, including the Middle East and Africa.
And as in the past, you come from many different roles in your organization, from IT managers and directors to CIOs, CFOs, CEOs, COOs, CMOs, and many more. In total, there are almost 70 different roles represented here today. Convergence is always such a great place to bring together business and technical leaders.
I want to take a moment to thank our marquee customers, some of whom you’re going to hear from today.
I’d also like to give a special welcome to all of you who are participating in our Executive Experience Program.
Convergence really is a great opportunity to share experiences and learnings and outcomes with other organizations from across the globe.
I’d also like to thank our sponsors. These companies help ensure the success of Convergence. And so I’d ask you to join me in showing our appreciation for them.  We’re also very excited about the momentum we have in this particular area. We have more than twice the number of sponsors this year as we had last year.
I’d encourage you to take the time to explore the Convergence Experience Center. There are so many different offerings there that you can learn about and get hands-on with. And take the time to visit all of our sponsors and exhibitors.
Of course, enjoy this amazing city over the next few days so that you get the maximum value out of the experience. Barcelona is such an amazing place. It has so much history and culture. And at the same time, it really gives us a good look as to how the future is shaping up.
Let me illustrate that with this short video.
 The La Masia first of all is just one example how Barcelona is transforming itself to be a digital smart city, leveraging the Microsoft cloud to better serve and connect with their citizens.
These human connections that technology can help facilitate are an important aspect of a strong community.
And at Microsoft we’re passionate about community, about helping and giving back. We’re going to hear about an organization that plays a vital role at the local and national levels here in Spain to support and strengthen and enrich the community. The Spanish Association Against Cancer helps to fight this terrible disease, educate the community, and support cancer patients and those closest to them.
To learn a little more, please join me in welcoming Miguel Angel Abeledo, the director of Information Systems for the AECC. 
Miguel, thank you so much for being here with us today. Could you please just take a little time to describe your organization?
 I’m glad to be here today.
The Spanish Association Against Cancer is an NGO and has a presence throughout the Spanish territory. We have 52 delegations throughout Spain, with more than 650 employees, and 15,000 volunteers, and 200,000 associates.
We have here the prevention side. We also have the assistance side. We help the people. And finally, we also have the research.
We are in Spain the most important NGO funded in investigation against cancer. We are funding more than 150 projects, with more than 28 million funds.
Only in 2013 we helped more than 400,000 people, families to fight against cancer.
 Excellent. So maybe you could tell us how does technology help your organization complete its mission.
The Association Against Cancer works with Dynamics CRM in a more holistic way. CRM helps us to put the beneficiary in the middle and the core in order them to find out the needs. So we can provide, provide service, all the services throughout Spain.
For example, with this system we could find out that there was an increase of 54 percent of need throughout Spain. That means that we have a 52 percent increase of need with these families which don’t have any resources in order to fight cancer. So this helps us to deliver the answers for all the needs of these people.
But with CRM we don’t only deliver the assistance. But it also helps us to get the funding of private institutions and public institutions, or to have a management, fully holistic management of our 200,000 associates. So we can get to know our associates and we can also design the campaigns.
So, and Dynamics is easy to handle. So for us it’s easy to approach our associates. And also our associates know Dynamics and so it’s easy to cooperate.
And each Euro saved we can invest into prevention, into assistance and also research.
 So thank you so much, Miguel, for sharing your story today, and thank you for the great work that you and your organization does to fight cancer and to support the community. Microsoft is honored to be your partner.
 Thank you, Wayne. I want to thank Microsoft the opportunity to participate in the event, and especially for your collaboration over the years. I know you are aware of the benefits that you provide to the Spanish society and the needy people in Spain. Thank you very much.
 Thank you. 
Now, you can do your part for AECC as well. As you know, we like to get your feedback. And to encourage that, for every evaluation form that you complete, Microsoft will donate 3 euros to this great organization. And we’ll also donate a further 3 euros to Caritas Spain, an organization that fights hunger, homelessness and poverty. So please give us your feedback and give back to this wonderful community.
Now let’s turn our attention to another rapidly growing community. This is the emerging workforce that we have within our businesses across the world. This new workforce is truly digital, and they understand the importance of cloud services. They bring fresh ideas and innovation at the same time they’re driving an imperative to change.
We’re embracing this community of young people through the Microsoft Dynamics Academic Alliance. This is a partnership between our customers, institutions of higher learning, and Microsoft. Across Europe, Middle East, and Africa there are 1,166 schools participating in the alliance, with 233,000 students.
With us today is a customer who truly exemplifies how this alliance can help both business and students. Please join me in welcoming Christian Vancea, the head of ERP and CSM Implementation for Lyoness Group out of Austria. 
Good morning, Christian. Can you briefly give us a little bit of your description, your background?
 Yes, of course, I would love to do that.
You know, I’m graduated from FH Joanneum University of Applied Sciences, located in Graz, Austria. And because of the Microsoft Academic Alliance Program they’re involved in, I had a chance to get hands-on experience on Dynamics NAV already in the classroom. And this actually added a lot of value to me and to my education. And, in fact, that was not a problem for me to get employed as a junior ERP consultant afterwards.
So I’ve been hired at Lyoness, and Lyoness is an international shopping community, just to give you an idea, and they also provide customer loyalty programs for small and medium enterprises.
And within my first year at Lyoness I did several implementations all over Europe together with my senior. And after one year and a half, my senior asked me, “Do you want to go to Hong Kong doing the implementation for our subsidiaries all over Asia-Pacific?” And I said, of course, I will accept the challenge.
So I’ve been relocated one year to Hong Kong, and I really had a great time, to be honest. It was amazing.
After I came back from Hong Kong, they offered me the position of head of supply chain implementation, and now we’re a team of eight people. I have four people in Europe, two people in Hong Kong, and one in Miami, altogether eight people.
 Excellent. So the NAV experience you had as a student actually helped you to get that role? And now as I understand it, you’ve reconnected with your school and your professor around the Academic Alliance. Can you tell us some more?
 Yes, exactly. So after I came back from Hong Kong, I got in touch with Mr. Singer, my former professor, at FH Joanneum, and we actually talked about what can we do to increase the hands-on experience of our students.
And we launched several projects. We have, for example, internships and we do several student projects, and we do also offer topics for bachelor and master thesis.
 OK, so now you’re in a position to hire students like you once were.
 Exactly. We actually hired already one, because we really saw the benefit of students having already hands-on experience within the classroom.
 Excellent. And how does NAV benefit your particular organization the way you use it in your company?
 Well, therefore you need to understand that Lyoness is a very young, dynamic and fast-growing company. So it’s very important to us having a solid ERP system and having fast and solid business process implementation. And Dynamics NAV provides us the flexibility we need.
 Excellent.
Well, look, I’d like to thank you for being with us today, for sharing your story, for your business, and also your continued connection with the Academic Alliance. It really is inspiring that we can show how today’s students can become tomorrow’s business leaders.
 Thank you very much for the invitation.
 Thanks very much.
 Thanks a lot. 
 And thanks to all of you for making this community here at Convergence so vital, meaningful and valuable. I hope that you enjoy the next few days. I look forward to meeting many of you, and have a great conference. Thank you. 
 Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome executive vice president, Microsoft Business Solutions, Kirill Tatarinov. 
 Good morning, everybody. What an amazing time, what an amazing event. It’s such a great pleasure and honor to be here with you this morning.
Sorry for bringing this weather with us from Seattle. It seems like we can’t leave home without it.
As Wayne mentioned, over 4,000 people are here live, and tens of thousands more watching this online live or in recorded. Thank you and welcome.
The largest part of the audience are existing Microsoft Dynamics customers. And to you I want to say thank you for your trust, thank you for your loyalty, thank you for your business. I hope the next couple of days will serve as a reassurance of the choice you made moving on with Microsoft Dynamics, and I hope you’re going to learn even more on how to put Microsoft Dynamics and Microsoft Business Solutions to an amazing use in your organization.
There’s also over 700 prospective customers here in the room, and I hope this event serves as the learning momentum for you to understand how committed we are to businesses worldwide, and how much we can serve your needs and the needs of your organization. And I hope to welcome you back at Convergence 2015 as Microsoft Dynamics customers.
And, of course, to all of the partners and team members in the room, thank you for doing amazing work, supporting our customers and driving this business forward.
We live in an amazing world, amazing world of technology advancements. It seems like all the trends that we spoke only a year ago now prominently entered our professional and personal lives, trends like mobility, cloud, big data analytics, social communications. I cannot imagine our lives without those mega trends.
It seems that the worlds of virtual and physical are converging in front of our very eyes. Mobility is much broader than just mobile communications. There are tens of billions of connected sensor-enabled devices that populate the world of broad Internet with the mass of data and information that we can put to real use in our business scenarios. And today, you will see some examples of how that big data and how Internet of Things is coming to life.
Internet has truly moved from being just a connector of people to connector of people and business transactions to connector of everything. We truly live in the world of Internet of Everything where everything is connected and everything is living.
Obviously, those technological advances rapidly change and transform the way we work. The Gartner Group estimates that next year more than 30 percent of global workforce will be completely mobile. Those people will not have desks, they will work with their phones and smart devices every day.
And, of course, organizations are responding. It is estimated that over 85 percent of organizations will implement policies that would enable people bringing their device to work and use the same devices for personal life and professional life. This converged usage scenario is very important to our innovation and truly shapes the way we build and transform the technology.
So here today at Convergence in Barcelona we’re going to show you how Microsoft is responding to those trends in the world and how Microsoft ushers those changes into your organization and really help you, help you embrace it and help you take full advantage of this amazing world of technology innovation all around us.
We’ll share with you why we build what we build and how it can help you. Let’s take a look.
 And we certainly value yours. Cortana is Microsoft’s personal assistant that is currently available in the United States and UK, and coming to a broad range of European countries in the next few months.
And, of course, we will put Cortana to work for business. It will be personal assistant and business assistant, and you’re actually going to see some demonstrations on how that technology is becoming available with Microsoft Dynamics CRM 2015.
Our worldview is mobile-first, cloud-first. Clearly, computing becomes ubiquitous with all of the sensors and mobile devices available in the world as end points. And cloud enables the mobility and mobility populates the cloud. This is truly the case when you have two firsts, as rare as that may be.
That worldview completely reshaped the way Microsoft builds technology and the way Microsoft innovates. The days of building for desktop and porting for mobility are long gone. We build and innovate for mobile devices, embracing all of the form factors natively, from the smallest one to the largest screen.
We’re building for the cloud. We’re building for scale, we’re building for performance, we’re building to security. This is now part of DNA. This has been core to Microsoft’s transformation.
We are a productivity and platform company, enabling people at work, at home, in their personal life and in their professional lives to save time, be more productive, and really take the most advantage of all of the technologies available to their use.
Of course, providing cloud operating system, providing cloud platform at scale is an important ingredient enabling us to bring digital work and digital life experiences to the world at large.
And, of course, delivering great advancements in user experience, delivering advances in first-party and third-party devices is the delivery vehicle of those experiences are very important and very central and a true part of our core.
Our recent unveiling of Windows 10 operating system is just one example and one step in this very important journey of our core and continuing to drive innovation and user experience, experience that is familiar to a billion people worldwide.
There’s no work without business productivity, and when we think about business productivity and how we make people at work be most productive, we really think of union of platform, platform that is helping IT people to be most productive, to individual productivity and team productivity with tools that help everybody in organizations to get the most common, the most simple tasks done at a very fast pace, to business process, automating business process, making business process connected, making business process united.
We really think of that union together, and that is unique approach that Microsoft has taken. We’ve seen many of our competitors try to parse the enterprise, divide and conquer the enterprise. That is not the Microsoft approach. Our approach is in the union. Our approach is to help IT people connect with the businesspeople. Our approach is to help businesspeople understand the needs of IT and what IT can enable them to do through technology.
We often find ourselves in a position of bridging IT and business, and we’re really proud to play this role for you, our customers, and bring our partners in this dialogue.
We enable business productivity through Microsoft cloud for business. This is why we build it and this is why we continue to evolve it. Yet again, this is truly unique approach that we have taken where we provide complete cloud experience, from infrastructure as a service to a broad range of platform services, to productivity and to business processes. This is really the case where Microsoft Azure, Office 365 and Dynamics come together to deliver complete Microsoft cloud for business.
Let’s take a look at some individual elements and how we provide and deliver innovation in Microsoft cloud for business.
Of course, it starts with the platform. Over the last decade, Microsoft invested billions of dollars in building our global footprint of the data centers. I must tell you those data centers are engineering marvels. Today, we have 19 data centers that provide complete global coverage. They’re secure, they’re robust, they’re high performing, they’re enterprise grade. We’re truly proud with what we’ve accomplished there.
Of course, infrastructure is just the beginning, and providing raw computing and raw storage at scale with high performance security and data privacy is just one element. And as part of our Azure platform we’re delivering a broad range of services, smart services that enable Internet of Things, that enable machine learning, that enable amazing business analytics at scale with all the right access, with all the right protections, and all the right security. We enable IT professionals, yet we build platform that enables us to drive productivity and business services.
Takeshi Numoto will be here after this speech sharing more about our innovation in cloud and enterprise part of Microsoft, so you will have a chance to hear. Of course, if you are interested in that particular aspect of what we drive, you will have a chance to hear in more detail on our innovation and recent major announcements that we have made in that area.
Office is the most popular productivity tool on earth. Over a billion people start and end their day in one of the Office tools. Office is there to help you create content, to help you manage content, to help you share content, to help you connect, communicate and collaborate with your team members.
We’re proud of continuous innovation in Office, of being the most familiar and the most productive tool for business. It is absolutely unmatched in its scale.
Several years ago, we started the move of traditional Office technologies into the cloud. We introduced Office 365. Over the course of the last five years, Office 365 became the most popular, fastest-growing product from Microsoft. Millions of people use it today. And we’re very excited about the transformation of Office 365 and what it helps our people to do now in the cloud.
Of course, our approach to the cloud is public cloud, private cloud and hybrid cloud, and everything that we do embraces that approach, embraces that philosophy that we need to give people the technology, the functionality, the scenarios, and people and organizations can choose the mode of deployment that uniquely fits their needs, fits with their environment, fits with their regulatory regime. And that’s precisely the commitment from the Office team.
Yet again, massive innovation, massive set of announcements. Innovation became continuous in all that we do in the cloud, and Office 365 is a prime example of that continuous innovation for the cloud.
And now to the business process, to business apps. This is where Microsoft Dynamics comes in. This is where Microsoft Dynamics now is a true integral part of Microsoft’s core, delivering business process automation, delivering business productivity to enrich and extend experiences that come from Microsoft Azure and Office 365.
Yet again, massive innovation. Innovation became continuous across those teams that deliver Microsoft Dynamics to you. The days of five-year release cycles are long gone. This is continuous stream of new scenarios and new functionality that is coming to you.
Next month, you will receive Microsoft Dynamics CRM 2015. Yet again in the spirit of enabling both private, hybrid and public cloud, you will have an option of doing both and doing it in combined fashion.
Microsoft Dynamics NAV 2015, the product that was introduced just last month, is available in Office 365, on Azure platform, and at the same time, still available in the traditional deployment mode in the private cloud.
Microsoft Dynamics GP 2015 coming to GP customers in December.
And, of course, Microsoft Dynamics AX with an update coming up in early December, and the next phase of innovation in Microsoft Dynamics AX moving into the cloud, truly position the portfolio of Microsoft Dynamics solutions that many of you here use and love, truly positions this portfolio of products and solutions at the core of what Microsoft does.
But, of course, the power is in the union. This is truly and honestly the case where the whole is much bigger than the sum of the parts.
Microsoft is the only company that has the breadth of cloud infrastructure and cloud platform. Microsoft is the only company that can bring you productivity of Office 365 extending that platform. And Microsoft is the only company that can help you automate your business processes as an extension of productivity and Azure platform.
We’re truly excited, we’re at a truly unique point in time where we as the company transformed to help the world of business in a very unique way through the union of those tremendous technologies and tremendous innovations.
Make no mistake, there’s no other company on earth that has completeness in the cloud that Microsoft has today, and this is just the beginning. The future is even brighter.
When we look at the broad range of business processes that need to be automated, when we have conversations with CEOs on their priorities, when we look at the world of business and when we see what’s the most important, without a doubt delivering amazing customer experiences is what’s at the forefront, what is at the top of mind of every CEO and every business and every organization that we touch and we see. And, of course, it is reconfirmed time and time again by many different analysts who speak to those customers with very, very large quantity.
When we think about delivering amazing customer experiences it is essentially the frontline of every business. Approximately 30 percent of people in business are engaged in active selling one way or another. So helping people be the most productive in selling process is certainly the top priority for everybody.
It is amazing to me that in this day and age very few organizations have actually implemented robust front office automation, and this is very dangerous in today’s environment, in today’s environment where customers often know and often made the purchasing decision even before they contact the prospective seller. It is very dangerous not to have the robust, buttoned-down front office automation in the environment where customers just walk away, competitor is one click and a few milliseconds away if the poor service is being delivered.
And, of course, this is really the environment where customers don’t have a problem paying more for superior services. And it’s our job to enable you to deliver the superior service. We view it as our duty and responsibility to help you connect with your customers in the most unique way. It is our job to help you nurture, delight, embrace your customer needs, connect and communicate with those customers when they need it, deliver the right marketing messages, connect your marketing people with your salespeople, unite your front office with your back office, enable you to support and communicate with those customers in the customer care scenario by either providing self-service or directly engaging with those customers from the knowledgeable call center agent that has full information right in front of their eyes.
But back to solution for sales productivity, which in our view is the most critical element of helping you delight and connect with your customers.
Only last month, we introduced Microsoft solution for sales productivity, and this is a prime example on how we look at innovation going forward. We look at this combined, integrated innovation where we embrace the entirety of Microsoft cloud for business, and put it to work to solve very specific scenarios, very specific needs of people in business.
In this case, we’re solving the needs of people in sales. We’re combining the power of Microsoft Dynamics CRM, Microsoft Office 365, and Microsoft Power BI, and we bring it together in a complete ready-to-go solution that provides rapid time to value, that provides amazing user experience, and at the end of the day makes your salespeople the most productive people on earth.
So with that, I would like to invite Eric Boocock on stage to join me and show you the solution for sales productivity in action. Eric? 
 Thank you, Kirill.
 Welcome.
 Hello, Convergence. Great to be here.
So I’m going to walk through a demonstration scenario that focuses on three experiences, a sales manager, a sales representative and a customer. So as I start here, I’m going to start in Power BI as a sales manager.
So as a sales manager, Power BI gives me a role-tailored dashboard that aggregates my various line of business applications so I can see what’s going on across my business, across sales and marketing, give me a view of what I need to manage my business. So what I see here right off the bat is, one of my sales reps, Mark Harrington, is trending a bit low on his forecast. We want to help use this data in Power BI to get Mark over his threshold here so that he is achieving his goal.
 So this is Power BI dashboard running on Azure?
 That’s correct. It’s aggregating CRM and marketing data, bringing it all together.
So I’m going to come in and I’m going to simply ask some questions of my data so I can gain some insights to help coach Mark to achieve his goal. So the first thing I’m going to look for is all closed opportunities by campaign. So it’s looking at my marketing data, looking at my sales data, and pulling up some information. The first thing to call out is blank, that’s actually not a bad thing. That means our sellers are out beating the street, identifying some deals and closing some deals on their own. For the next couple of values you see here, the Customer Attention Nurture campaign is driving the most effective closes of opportunities.
So I want to now look at Mark’s opportunities and see where there may be some synergies. I’m going to look at all open opportunities for Mark Harrington, and we’ll just sort by the source campaign. What I see right here is for the Customer Attention campaign, he has a $510,000 deal that’s sitting in the closed stage, 90 percent probability, clearly the deal we want to focus on. So I’m going to share this insight with Mark so that he can take this data and work on this deal.
So as I transition to my seller, there’s a couple of things that I need to do as a seller. So as Mark Harrington, the sales representative now, I’ve taken this feedback and I’ve set up the meeting with my customer. So like most sales representatives, I’m constantly on the move. So what you’ll see here is I have this wearable device that gives me notifications of things like text messages, emails, but most importantly here I just got a notification.
 Time to leave.
 Time to leave. We’ve got to make this meeting.
 We’ve got to make it work.
 We’ve got to make it work. So now as I transition over to my phone, you’ll see my personal assistant here on my phone has automatically told me that with traffic it’s time to get going. So I’m going to now take this information, get to my meeting, meet this customer, and that’s fantastic.
Let’s fast-forward a little bit. Meeting with the customer went great. But I’ve got an important follow-up item that I want to catch up with when I get back to the office. So right here within my phone I can ask my phone to do some things for me.
 That’s back to Cortana.
 That is. CRM remind me to add upgrade to Paul Alcorn.
 Creating task.
 So by simply speaking to my phone I can capture a follow-up action in Microsoft Dynamics CRM that allows me to capture some data on the move and get back to the office.
 So that’s Cortana personal assistant becoming business assistant.
 That is. Now, imagine that, on the fly I get to my meeting, meeting went great. I’m back here at the office. So now as a sales representative back here in the office, I’m in Microsoft Dynamics CRM. So what you’ll see from my opportunity, again, I’m sitting in that closed stage and I have a couple of things I need to complete the proposal. But the first thing you’ll notice here is at the top there is that activity, remind me to add the upgrade for Paul Alcorn. Let’s go add that.
By quickly clicking here on suggestions, I see all possible opportunities, things like cross-sell, accessories and up-sell that I can add to this particular product. So I add that item, update the amount. And like that my opportunities automatically updated based on this amount. I’ve made the change.
So now I can come into documents, and I can see all my sales content for this particular deal, my sales proposal, my contracts, and even that updated sales proposal that I needed to get this customer. So in order to help sales reps close deals quickly, my company implemented DocuSign. So DocuSign helps me take contracts, simply add digital signatures, and send them to my customers so they can easily accept those signatures and send them back to me.
So what you’ll see here, by simply opening up my contract, I can drag in a signature as easy as that and hit send.
 Just like that.
 Just like that. Boom.
 And that’s a partnership with DocuSign and integration that was built by both teams now enable us in such an integrated, convenient fashion.
 Exactly. Here in SharePoint but driving sales productivity, I’ve now sent this out to my customer. My customer receives that. So I’m showing you how a sales productivity solution from Microsoft enables a sales manager and a sales representative to truly drive sales productivity.
What about the customer? Let’s show how we made this easy for our customer to close this deal out.
 You’re talking about the proposal that you sent?
That is, the one I just sent right there. So I’m back here on my phone.
 Now you’re playing the customer role?
That is correct.
So on my phone I see I have an email. My customer opens up that email, they get this email that says please sign this document with DocuSign. I can click view documents. That’s very easy. I have to accept to be able to provide a digital signature, tap to sign. Let’s rotate the device, and if you wouldn’t mind doing me the honors here.
 Absolutely.
 And just like that we’ve closed, we’ve won this deal. Now that’s sales productivity.
Thanks, Convergence.
 Outstanding, Eric. Thank you so much.
Well, I certainly wish every deal was as easy for your sales people as it was for Eric here. If you did not have a chance to give Dynamics CRM consideration, now is the time. If you have not automated your front office, if you have not automated your sales people, now is the time to do it and now is the time to do it with Dynamics CRM 2015 coming to market next month. There are thousands of organizations like yours that are becoming more successful, more productive through the use of Dynamics CRM, customers large and small.
And it gives me a real pleasure to bring on stage our first guest, an organization called Ingram Micro. They’re a Microsoft customer, Microsoft partner, serving the needs of thousands of companies worldwide by delivering technology to them. And I want to invite Nimesh Dave and Apay Obang on stage to join me.
 Kirill.
 Welcome.
 Thank you.
 Nice to see you.
 It seems like your chair is a little bit low.
 Absolutely.
 Isn’t it incredible when you come in in the morning, the first thing you realize is how under-tall you are compared to everybody else?
 Hey, this is how I start my every day.
 The good thing is we can compensate with that brainpower that we have.
 That’s why I like working with you so much, Nimesh.
 Under-tall people, we’re going to rule the world eventually.
 Very good. So cloud, your focus is on the cloud, as the title applies. Tell us a little bit about Ingram Micro and the cloud. What’s the view? What’s the vision? What are you guys focused on?
 So Ingram Micro is the world’s largest wholesale technology distributor. We provide approximately 42 billion dollars worth of technology solutions around the world through partners. We serve customers in 170 countries. We have in-country operations in 40 of them. We have 4 business units. We have a business unit called cloud, that’s the one I’m going to talk about a little bit. We have one called technology solutions. We have a mobility arm, and we have a supply chain services, quite interesting, fairly well aligned to some things that Microsoft is doing.
We’ve been a partner with Microsoft for 25 years and we basically provide about $2 billion of Microsoft to the channel every single year.
 That’s fantastic. Thank you for your partnership and thank you for your business. Now, not long ago you made a very interesting switch. You took down Salesforce.com and you are in the process of deploying Microsoft Dynamics CRM. How is that going?
 It’s going fantastic. I think it’s a great product. I think we didn’t only decide to implement Microsoft Dynamics CRM, but we also decided to implement marketing at the same time. And the reasons to do that is that one of the things is we’re growing our cloud business, our cloud practice worldwide, and I would encourage everybody to look at this. You need to serve customers differently. You need to create a level of intimacy and understand their needs, because I think you were saying before the world that we’re going to is about services, and customers have a choice, and they have a choice of where to go to. So again, we were looking for a solution that was integrating all of our assets, whether it was Lync, it was Azure, it was the SharePoint, it was the O365, into something that was highly simple for our organization to consume, with confidence and ease. We call it a really great tool, right. And a really great tool is one that you don’t need instructions for. The great thing that we’ve seen is that our user adoption rates, our first group that went was live and operational in 66 days and it took about 2-1/2 hours of user induction. So it’s going fantastic. We’re really happy.
 Well, I’m quite pleased and quite excited.
Now, Apay, you’re on the front lines?
 Absolutely.
 And I guess for most guys like you on the front lines actually selling CRM tools traditionally have been tools of oppression.
 Absolutely, no not in this case. I think one of the great learnings and challenges we have to deal with in the market is really the fast pace of change and the fast pace of demand that’s coming from our partners. So at the moment what we’re really needing to see is an ability to engage dynamically with our partners. So now what we are seeing is much richer and deeper connections across all our offices and operations. Our operations cut right across many functions, from sales, marketing, and operations.
With the challenge of operating within multiple geographies, as well, within countries such as the UK, France, and Germany, we need to really achieve greater access to information. Now today with Dynamics CRM we’re certainly seeing much richer connections across all these offices and operations, because with a single pane of view all customer correspondence are there available to all teams. Immediately we can quickly respond to customer needs and customer demands and all our associates can now respond in a very dynamic fashion, and in an intimate fashion with our partners with confidence and ease.
 That’s fantastic. That’s great news. So a tool of productivity versus a tool of oppression one might say.
 Absolutely.
 Excellent.
Nimesh, what’s next for Ingram? What sort of continuation of the journey, cloud, sales productivity, marketing, sort of customer engagement?
 So I think the next thing is that we started with our transformation in one area. That’s helping companies embrace the cloud and what we call the promise of technology. And what I would encourage people in this room to do is to take a look at cloud as an incredible opportunity. It’s an opportunity for everybody in this room to create more value for their customers. It’s an opportunity for you to help your customers become more productive. And it’s an opportunity for you guys to help your customers excel. And it was really funny just before I came out here, I typically don’t wear makeup in the morning. It’s kind of strange. And the one thing I’ll tell you, I was talking to the lady back there, Theresa, and she’s a really nice makeup artist, and she said, well, what can you do for me? I said can you make me beautiful? And she goes I don’t work miracles on Tuesdays.
I think what you’re seeing from what Microsoft is doing in their transformation and what they’re leading in cloud is you’re seeing a company that actually understands how to make things like that happen. So I encourage you guys to work with your partners, work with companies like us, and Microsoft, to lift your businesses to the cloud.
 That’s great. Unfortunately, we don’t do miracles, either, but we bring the reality to businesses worldwide through technology.
Nimesh, pleasure.
Apay, thank you for being with us.
Terrific example of technology put to an amazing use, empowering people on the front lines to be productive, and changing the type of engagement that Ingram Micro can now drive for their customers.
At Microsoft our job is to serve customers of all sizes and all geographies, large, small, medium size. Of course, our base, our legacy, our foundation with Microsoft Dynamics is in delivering solutions for small and medium business and today, more than ever before, delivering complete solutions for small and medium business is at the core of our priorities. It’s at the core of our mission. There is an obvious, logical explanation for that: 90 percent of world GDP is being generated by small and medium business, and over 90 percent of global workforce actually comes from small and medium business.
Microsoft Dynamics uniquely aligns with the needs of small and medium business. First and foremost, it is rapid time to value. Small organizations don’t have time to configure and customize. They really need solutions coming out of the box. They really need solutions that fit their needs from the get-go, solutions that is preconfigured by Microsoft and Microsoft partners. And this is precisely where our continuous investment in our solutions for small and medium business come to play that unique role.
A prime example of that is Microsoft Dynamics NAV 2015. And yet it’s another example of Microsoft cloud for business, Microsoft Dynamics NAV 2015 is built to run on Azure and in Office 365. So essentially small business gets the best of Microsoft straight out of the box.
Rather than talking deeply about what we’re providing, I thought it would be best to show you how solutions for small and medium business actually act. And with that, let me invite Marko Perisic on stage to show you Microsoft Dynamics NAV 2015 on Azure, in Office 365.
Marko.
 Hi, Kirill.
Hi, everybody. Welcome to Barcelona. Welcome to Convergence. I’m very excited to be here to show you what Kirill just talked about and as Kirill just said it’s a mobile-first, cloud-first world.
In this world it’s not enough to have cutting-edge technology and to have rich functionality. We need to have amazing customer experiences. So I’m going to demo that through a perspective of an SMB owner, or play the role of an SMB owner, and walk you through a journey of that SMB owner across multiple tasks, multiple devices, multiple browsers, all connected in Office 365 and in the cloud. So I have my first device here. I was told it’s quite a popular device. I think ‑‑
 For now.
 For now, I think it’s called an iPad. But, we’ll do our first demo on iPad here. So if we take a look at the home screen we see some, again, very popular apps on the App Store right now, which is Microsoft Office Apps for the iPad. So we have Word, Excel, PowerPoint, OneNote, et cetera. And until recently there was one app missing, which was the Dynamics NAV app. So as we ship Dynamics NAV 2015 we ship all apps for iOS, Windows, and Android simultaneously. It will enable a touch-first, this beautiful touch-first experience, with NAV 2015 on all devices. So I’m going to start with a demo and show what this looks like.
So I’m going to start the app. I’m signing in now in Office 365. I’m using my single sign-on, which follows me across multiple devices, because NAV is deeply integrated inside of Office 365. And what you see is this wonderful experience. On the left-hand side I have these beautiful tiles that tell me all the important information about my business. I also have these different color sentiments to tell me what I should be focusing on when it comes to my business. On the right-hand side I have the role center, adapted now fully for touch. As you can see I can easily scroll and manipulate all the data just with touch.
And one thing we noticed is when people use devices they have two modes of work. One is when actively working with the device they typically hold it in one hand in landscape mode, and they touch it with the other hand. So you can see all the commands are right here in the middle of the device, easily accessible as I’m using it in this mode. So as an SMB owner I use the device in this mode.
So let’s take an example, I am at the airport sitting in a lounge and reading something on my device. I might be playing Angry Birds, Star Wars, or something like that. And I’m sitting here looking at the device in this mode, in portrait mode. And as I do that you can see the entire experience adjusts itself for portrait mode. So all the information is now available with more information real estate, and all the commands available right underneath my thumbs.
So what I’ll do right now as I’m looking through this I receive a phone call from Andy Tio, one of my favorite customers, who wants to order some bicycles. So right now I can just type in here and I say customers, and I can see the Cannon Group, and just with my thumbs I can navigate to Andy’s company and I can say, create me a new sales invoice and I’ll tap on the item number, I tap on this ellipsis here. And with my right thumb I tap on bicycle, I tap on quantity, and select five bicycles. And just like that, with nothing else but my thumbs and my iPad I created an invoice.
So now I want to go ahead and post that invoice and print that invoice. So I can, again, do that just by holding this iPad and this experience just like a piece of paper. I tap on print. Print the invoice. Send to PDF document. And just like that, with nothing else but my two thumbs, I’ve created a beautiful invoice for Andy that I can send to him now and he can make some payments.
Now one thing you’ll notice is this great-looking invoice looks a lot like some of the Office documents that we have in the Office store. Now, there’s a good reason for that, because within the Microsoft Dynamics NAV 2015 we allow you to use one of the familiar tools for all of you, which is Microsoft Word, to modify and manage your outgoing document reports. So I’m now boarding a plane, sent the invoice to Andy, and I’m back in the office a couple of weeks later.
So here I am at my desktop now, as I’m on desktop I log into my browser and I can see here the Office 365 SharePoint site, the SharePoint Online. You may also notice I’m running Firefox here, but this is supported across all major browsers, Internet Explorer, of course, and Safari, and Chrome. So as I’m here in my home site I can see all the information for Dynamics NAV integrated with the SharePoint online. So I see all these graphs here from NAV. I can see my travel balance. I can see all the type of information I’m interested in right here on my home screen as I’m in Office 365.
But, because again I’m using single sign-on, it’s very easy for me to just click on this link here, Dynamics NAV for Office 365, and this takes me to full Web experience with NAV inside of Office 365. And here again I see the same information that’s seen on the iPad. I can still see that I have an overdue sales invoice amount pretty high, which is sort of marked with a red sentiment here. And I want to see really what’s going on here. So I can drill into that. I can get a lot more information about these over in the sales invoices. And I can also go in the customer list and as I’m here I can see information about all my customers, and one important thing that happens as I’m inside of this particular tab is, as I click around, Microsoft Social Listening should start engaging any second on my right-hand side. Let’s just make sure we refresh this, make sure I still have my session.
 This is Social Listening in context.
 Correct. So let’s try this one more time. And look through my customers here. Here we go. So on my right-hand side Microsoft Social Listening is behind the scenes grabbing all the data from the cloud, from all the social media, and presenting that data to me. So as I’m about to call Andy and ask him to make a payment on the invoice I can see what the social sentiments are about the Cannon Group. And right here I see that there’s an overwhelming certainly positive social sentiment, a few negatives, but nothing that I should really be concerned about. And this really helps me shape my conversation as I’m talking to Andy.
So I checked the state of this business and I realized, OK, it’s time to get to my next meeting. And as I’m in the office I’m using a different device. I choose to use a Surface, because I like the security and management capabilities that I don’t have on the iPad. So with the Surface ‑‑ was that too subtle?
 That was heaven. It’s a fact.
 Thank you. And on the Surface I can actually do more. I can actually do two things at the same time. So if I start my ‑‑
 Multi-tasking, something the world embraced a long, long time ago. It’s groundbreaking.
 But, on a Surface I can actually do that indeed. So again, I’m starting my app on a Surface. I’m logging in with Office 365, single sign-on, getting into my touch experience, and here we are, the same beautiful touch experience now running on a Surface. And of course this runs on Android, as well.
So now if I navigate to my customer list and I find Cannon Group I can see all of Andy’s information right there, and then as I’m walking over to the meeting I just decide I want to give Andy a call. And I type on this link here, it will ask me to open Skype. It will open Skype in a sidebar view and I can have a phone call with Andy, look at his information, and even better, if I want to have a more intimate conversation with Andy I can actually start a video call on Skype and as I do that I can reset the experience to single call on view to the side here, and I can have a video call with Andy and see all his information right there side-by-side.
 Excellent.
 So this is the experience for me as an SMB owner across multiple devices, multiple browsers, in Office 365, running on Windows Azure.
 Great. Thank you Marko, amazing presentation.
 Thank you, Kirill.
 This is certainly a great example of the best of Microsoft with Azure, Office 365 including all of its components, Microsoft Social Listening all tied together into nice Microsoft Dynamics NAV experience for small business. And today over 100,000 organizations worldwide run their businesses, run their mission-critical business processes on Microsoft Dynamics NAV. And this solution is the gift that keeps on giving with ongoing, uninterrupted, continuous innovation. Dynamics NAV 2015 is just a prime example of how that innovation continues to serve your needs.
With that, I would like to invite on stage our next guest, Gwendal Meledo, who is the CEO of the organization called Onduline. It’s based in Paris, France, and Onduline is a manufacturing business. The business has grown. They started over 40 years ago as a small business. Now they’re in sort of medium to large category with over 1,000 people worldwide in a number of locations. And I would like Gwendal to join me and share with you his journey with Dynamics NAV.
Gwendal.
 Hi, Kirill.
 Welcome. Welcome to Convergence. Thank you for being here. Thank you for your business.
Well, I suspect, although it may not be household names, so perhaps just a few words about your company and what you guys do in your own words.
 Yes, for sure. Onduline is a worldwide leader for light roofing solutions. And we are producing and delivering light roofing solutions and we have ten plants across the world, and ten subsidiaries and we are currently in hundreds of countries.
 And Microsoft Dynamics NAV is your choice.
 Microsoft NAV is my choice, but not only NAV. We made the choice to leverage the full ecosystem of Microsoft.
 So it’s cloud?
 Some cloud, exactly. And some 365, that’s SharePoint, that’s Navision. That’s coming down the pipe certainly, business intelligence delivered through SharePoint Online. That’s all the solutions. We made the decision to go for it. I mean, it was the right fit for us.
 That’s terrific. You mentioned to me yesterday when we’re chatting, last night, your business is quite competitive. And the demands are only growing.
 You know there is fierce competition, but it’s not only the competition. It’s the global economy. I mean, today we have to adapt and to adapt quickly. We are under the pressure of the global economy rebalancing. There is also our objectives in terms of continents, cash. We cannot afford to wait and see things happening. And the business is under pressure to drive some initiatives.
And IT and me as the CIO of Onduline Company need to provide full support to those business folks and try to reduce the time for delivering in the right manner at the right time to reduce the time that before when we were talking about IT that was a showstopper, because infrastructure, it was heavy. We were late on delivery. We were slowing down those guys. Today we are leveraging the cloud for that.
 That’s fantastic. That’s great to hear. Cloud and Microsoft Dynamics NAV enables you to serve the needs of your business and provide this.
 Totally right. And right now that means that my main focus is not on technology, because that has been given to Microsoft. I don’t have to deal with that anymore. That’s great.
 No infrastructure.
 No infrastructure. And my main focus is about change, which is my true job, change management.
 OK. What’s next for Onduline, Gwendal?
 Well, next we are posturing our deployment. We will partner across the eastern countries of Navision. And definitely to explore new solutions. I mean, we’re talking to you about Power BI. I’ve seen a great presentation there, and it’s definitely a solution that I’m looking after because most of the people in this room dream about getting in the office the very next day and on the morning to have all their dashboard online and I can integrate whatever system of figures across the cloud and provide those guys with those figures. So this is something that I want to go for.
 Fantastic. Gwendal, thank you for joining us.
 You are more than welcome.
 We’re here to help and support you.
 Thanks a lot.
 Thank you very much.
In this business in this day and age we often talk about delivering predictable business outcomes, delivering certainty, connecting IT and technology so that certainty comes to the business people. Delivering predictable outcomes certainly implies that you know what the future would shape and would look like. And being able to introduce predictions and predictable modeling into business solutions is certainly the next major most important, most significant frontier that we’re tackling with Microsoft Cloud for Business and with Microsoft Business Solutions.
Taking technologies like Azure Machine Learning to solving real needs for real businesses is what we see our customers embracing and delivering today. It is no longer in the future. It is no longer something that we dream about and read about. This is something that we see our customers doing today by harnessing power of Microsoft Azure Machine Learning and Microsoft Dynamics working together.
So let me invite our next guest, Mushtaque Ahmed, who is Chief Operating Officer of a long-standing Microsoft and Microsoft Dynamics customer from the UK, JJ Foods. As the name implies, they are in food distribution. They’ve been a Dynamics AX customer for ten years. I think we’re celebrating that anniversary actually at this event here. And Mushtaque will share with you how machine learning and Microsoft Dynamics AX work together to help him deliver predictable outcomes to his business.
Mushtaque.
 Good morning.
 Welcome. It’s a pleasure to have you here with us. Please.
 Thanks for having me.
 So a little bit about JJ Foods?
 Well, as the name suggests, we are an independent, probably the largest independent food service company in the UK operating from eight different branches, and predominantly it’s a business-to-business model. So right across the country, 60,000 customers delivering food and catering-related products.
 So it is business-to-business type of settings, as type of scenarios your customers are shops.
 Restaurants, schools, football clubs, office canteens.
 Great. You’ve been with us on the Microsoft Dynamics journey for the last ten years. Of course, a lot has changed. How has that transformation been happening?
 Well, the last ten years is a long way. And what a lovely way to celebrate that with the Dynamics community here on stage in Barcelona. Over the ten years using Dynamics AX we’ve brought in a lot of automation to improve our business efficiency. But the last five years we saw a transition from being 100 percent call center based business to an e-commerce type of business. A lot of our business, at least 50 percent, have moved onto our Web shop. And that brought some challenges in, because when a call center is talking to a customer we can do the up-selling, cross-selling, impulse buying element. But that was sort of missing out on the Web.
So we thought, let’s take it to the next lead. And there was a lot of thinking around this, and suddenly we found that Azure Machine Learning tool is capable of delivering that. So we partnered with Microsoft and went on a journey.
 Terrific. And this solution has been built and in place?
 Well, it’s been running the last five weeks, and there are some interesting numbers coming up.
 What are you seeing?
 Internet sales have gone up by 3-1/2 percent, amazingly, but it’s early days.
 So the solution is live. Can we take a look?
 It is. But you’re asking me to be very brave and hopefully you have got a very forgiving audience here.
 You’re among friends. Don’t worry.
 All right. Already feeling guilty about the English weather. But you are filling 50 percent of the planes between Seattle and London.
 We’re sharing all of it.
 I’ve logged in as a customer here on the portal. It looks like an ordinary, traditional website. But what is extraordinary here is the way the items are presented on screen to the customer. Meaning, we want the customer to spend as little as possible on the website, unlike traditional consumer websites. So Azure ML model is delivering the products with the highest predicted probability the customer is going to buy today.
So here a customer is logged in and I’ve picked some products to add to the basket, which is the top part here you can see. I’m adding items here. The items are going to the cart. And this is when the machine learning tool is predicting from the other customers’ buying habits that when you buy Coke, you may actually need Diet Coke as well. Let’s add another item here. OK, we’ve got Fanta, but at the same time we want some Diet Coke as well. So we call this feature frequently bought together items.
But to take this to the next level, once a customer has decided that, OK, I’m done more or less, I want to check out. And at this point we are actually recommending some of the items which are very popular in this market sector. And this is why we can see that it’s almost like a 5 percent uplift in the shopping basket from the recommended product range. Now this is for the customer’s experience, right?
 Yes.
 But remember I mentioned that the call center agent used to do this business. So what we need, having learned from this experience, we took it to the call center as well. Now this is Dynamics AX, a very customized call center sort of entry form. And let me explain the print here. The blue color is the items which you are predicting that the customers are going to buy today with the highest probability. The yellow box is actually again the predicted items, but with the lower probability of hitting a sales today. The green one, you notice that there are some old tickets here. This is what they have already sold to the customer.
So let me add another item to this box. So say there are four items here. And now the agent, without remembering any relevance to this customer, to his product range, click on the show recommendation and on the left-hand side you can see there are four different items recommended. So from here they can easily add the recommended item to the customer’s shopping basket.
So the whole engine is sitting on Dynamics AX.
 So it’s all multi-channel, omni-channel I guess I should say.
 Absolutely.
 Dynamics AX powering call agents. Dynamics AX holding the transaction history over a long period of time.
 Ten years.
 Ten years.
 We used three years’ worth of transactional data to train the model.
 So you took the most recent three years of transaction history from Dynamics AX, trained Azure ML to serve ‑‑
 And the click data from the website.
 That’s fantastic. That’s great and it works.
 Yes, absolutely. So that was lucky.
 Terrific. Well, Mushtaque, thank you for joining us. Amazing example of how the future is delivered now.
 Absolutely, using Microsoft technology, and thanks Microsoft for providing that.
 We’re here to help. Thank you, Mushtaque. Thank you for joining us.
What an amazing example and an amazing, amazing demonstration. Of course, Mushtaque took a little bit of risk, but it’s terrific to see our customers being so brave.
Security. Security today is probably of more importance than it has ever been before in the era of computing. Security threats are growing. Attacks are getting more sophisticated. Attackers are getting more organized. And it’s more important than ever before for Microsoft, our partners, and our customers to take security concerns very, very seriously.
At Microsoft we’re making significant investments not only in making sure that our cloud platform and our cloud technologies are the most secure, but also by sharing security best practices with our customers. We have a special service that’s available to all of you to help you analyze your environment and help you determine how secure and protected you are. And I certainly encourage you to look it up and to consider deploying.
My next guest, Christian Arroya from Nagra Kudelski, knows a lot about security. His firm is delivering security solutions to their customers. And what I would like to do is to invite Christian onstage to join me to share with you what they do, how they do it, and how Microsoft cloud is helping them.
Christian, please.
So tell us a little bit about Nagra Kudelski.
 So Nagra Kudelski is a security company with three main pillars. One is a pay-TV content protection. The second is public access with key data for which we control key pass. Stadium access.
 Very good. And you’ve been Microsoft’s customer for a number of years on the Office side, and given the line of business that you’re in, I assume it’s private cloud?
 It’s a private cloud, segregation is an obsession for us.
 And we certainly find many customers like Nagra Kudelski obsessed about security and as much as we all work in the industry to make Internet secure, for those organizations it is private cloud. And that’s why we’re so committed to it.
 Absolutely. And thank you, Microsoft.
 It is absolutely our pleasure and our responsibility.
And so you recently made the decision to move off the legacy Oracle environment to Dynamics and made fairly significant commitments to Dynamics AX and Dynamics CRM. Can you share a little bit more about it?
 Yes. So we’re looking about a new modern platform with two sides. One is user experience and the second is about the technology, flexible and agile. And it took us about nine months of analysis to decide finally that Dynamics was and is the right platform to go.
 And so you made your choice. And now we’re starting the journey together.
 Yes. In September we started the journey, and we expect in January 2016 to be ready.
 How many people are going to be using the tool?
 2,400, at least.
 And that’s this combination of everything, I guess you could say, the best of Microsoft for the needs of your business in private cloud environment.
 It’s absolutely everything relating to finance to CRM, et cetera.
 Obviously with this deployment being such a critical element of the future, I can imagine that your team will be fairly busy in driving that deployment. And you can trust that we’ll be there with you every step of the way, like we do for this community.
 Thank you very much.
 All right. Thank you for joining us, Christian. It’s terrific to have you as our customer, and expanded usage of Microsoft Dynamics Cloud in private setting for your business.
 Thank you.
 As we look at our global community of customers and we analyze the types of benefits that our customers gain from deploying Microsoft Dynamics, we find some outstanding statistics. And I just want to pause for a brief second to let you soak these numbers in. There are phenomenal advances that we see customers do, phenomenal advances in productivity, revenue growth, return on investment. It’s just phenomenal, phenomenal statistics, and phenomenal business outcomes that we see in the world of business through Microsoft Cloud.
And it’s become a very exciting tradition for us to celebrate the success of our customers at Convergence events, and today is not an exception. And today we celebrate those customers who are excellent in the use of technology in their geographies and in their industries. Those customers were nominated by their partners through a very vigorous process of selecting them, and they are fantastic at how they put technology to good use of their business. So let’s give the winners a warm round of applause.
We’ve positioned Convergence as the sharing and learning event, first and foremost, and those excellent award winners are here with us, and they’re available to share their experiences with you. So I encourage you to seek them out, have a conversation with them, and understand what have they done uniquely to be in this elite category of our customers.
And of course, behind every one of those success stories, behind every single success story, and behind every one of the guests we implemented solutions and shared it with you, and behind every one of those excellence award winners there is a partner. And Microsoft’s strategy on partnerships is invariant. We’ve been deliberately dependent on our partners, not only as the delivery arm, but also as the provider of complete, finished solutions, as implementation partner, as value-added reseller, as the cloud partner.
I’m very excited about the growth in our partner channel. I’m very excited about the growth of very well trained, competent people that work in this community to help this community embrace the future with Microsoft cloud for business and Microsoft business solutions.
I want to join ‑‑ I want to invite to join me here on stage Chris Wyatt, who represents one of the newest partners who joined our community. Chris Wyatt was the head of services for IBM in Europe and we’ll have a little dialogue on how this partnership, that was quite unlikely even five years ago, is helping this community get more from technology.
Chris, please.
Thank you very much. Welcome.
 Thank you very much, delighted to be here.
 Well, it’s terrific you are here. Who would have thought only a few years ago that IBM and Microsoft would be on stage together talking about the business community?
 Indeed, I mean times have changed. What our clients are telling us is that their needs and their expectations of transformation are different now. They need speed, agility. They need flexibility. They need solutions that can scale and deliver value quickly. So therefore, what we need to see, and what we need to be working with are teams that have got solutions that are cloud-ready, that are designed for mobile, that have got analytics inside and do that critical thing of scaling. And the Dynamics product set, they do those things.
 That’s terrific. Things have obviously changed at IBM as the world transformed.
 Things have changed a lot. All those watchwords about being faster, delivering quicker, that’s the watchword now.
 I think IBM over the years, IBM Global Business Services, the organization that you represent here, here in Europe, have established ourselves as true trusted advisor to the larger, larger organizations. And in that trusted advisor role you obviously have a choice of a broad range of technologies.
 Indeed, and we work with a broad range of technologies together with Microsoft. We’ve actually now got over 1,000 joint clients around the world, which is very exciting.
 That is very exciting.
 And I was going to tell you just a little bit about one of those if I may today.
 Of course.
 This is a client where we’ve been working together on CRM engagement. They’re from England, and they are, in fact, the English Rugby Football Union, the RFU.
 All right, are there any fans here in the room?
 There may be some fans, rugby fans? There may be. Never mind, we’re fans.
 OK, great. Of course, we’re fans of our customers.
 We are indeed, yes. So together this 360-degree view that we’ve been building that enables them actually right from the fans at the grassroots level up to the fans who come and attend the events to build a richer picture of information about all of those sets of people. Obviously then using that set of information you can develop a more personalized experience for the grassroots guy and for the guy watching the game.
Now that experience then delivers more value for those fans and more value back for the RFU. Now, I’ve done quite a few CRM engagements in my time as a consultant and quite often there’s a ‑‑ and I saw it and heard it, in fact, on the cloud video earlier, about turning customers into fans. Now here at the RFU, of course, it’s about turning fans into customers.
 That’s a fantastic story. Thank you for sharing it. Thank you, that’s quite exciting.
 Pleasure.
 So what’s next, the partnership, IBM Global Business Services?
 Indeed, growth and more growth, and there are two ways, two things to do, two things to focus on to get that growth. We’ve agreed together a clear goal and a clear focus, and that is a focus around industry. At IBM, as you say, we’ve got a business services team, over 14,000 people out there every day bringing that experience of the industry issues, industry processes, operations to clients.
Now what we need to do is marry that, what we are doing is marrying that industry expertise with the Dynamics product sets, which are functionally very rich, to sort of get another step change in the value that we’re going to bring together. We’re going to use some new capabilities, as well, some things from IBM that are just groundbreaking. IBM interactive experience, our world-leading, the world’s largest, in fact, digital agency, to make sure we can together design the experiences that clients need.
 That’s fantastic.
 And I didn’t talk about the goal. I talked about the focus. Maybe it’s more of an ambition, but we want to be No. 1, No. 1 partner globally to the enterprise Dynamics business.
 Well, that’s fantastic. What a great goal, thank you very much, Chris. And thank you for joining us.
 Pleasure.
 Thank you for your partnership, terrific.
 This is about transformation. And we had a chance to talk about transformation in the world of business and in the world of technology. We had a chance to share with you how Microsoft is transforming to bring this amazing, amazing set of technology trends to you and benefits to your business here and now. We had a chance to share a few amazing stories, a few amazing stories of customers that are putting this technology to an amazing use today. And we’re here committed to your success.
And I truly hope that the next couple of days will serve as the reassurance to our existing customers that you made the right choice going with Microsoft Dynamics and you have a chance to learn more tools and more tricks to make your business even more successful. And I truly hope that those who are prospective customers come back next year as our committed customers.
And I want to thank you yet again, our team members here in the room, and our partners. We’re here committed to your success. Microsoft is here to serve the needs of global business and help you deliver amazing business outcomes.
Thank you all very much. Please enjoy Convergence 2014.
  Thank you.  It's a real pleasure to be here.  This is such a terrific organization and I know the planning committee has been working for months on this event.  There’s a great a board of directors that leads this organization.   
I always enjoy coming to these kinds of meetings.  It creates the opportunity to learn new things, and I sometimes worry about the things that might go wrong.  I just want to say that, as you heard before, I wish I had been turned away before I went into the men's room that for today has been turned into a women’s room.   I want you to know that I have never been in and out of a restroom so quickly in my life.   
There are so many good things about this organization and one of them is the women who head GCI.  But even more than that, before talking about where we are today and where we are headed in the future, I think it's worth taking a moment to reflect on the remarkable past that has brought all of you and all of us together. 
It's remarkable to think that it was 115 years ago, in 1899, that the Women Lawyers' Club, as it was then called, had its first meeting.  It's remarkable to think that a century ago when that group met here, there were 170 members – far fewer people than are here for lunch today. But I think the most remarkable thing to reflect upon is the leaders of that time.  There was Olive Stott Gabriel, the President of the Women Lawyers Club, who 100 years ago when this group was getting together had the vision to ask what they should do next.  And what she urged and what this group did was come together in 1915 and decide to take on the cause of women's suffrage in the United States.  And in part because that group of people dedicated itself to that cause, within five years Congress passed the Constitutional amendment that led to the right for women to vote.  
One of the things I like about Olive Stott Gabriel is that she grew up in Oregon, not far from those of us who live in Washington State.  As she traveled the country to talk about the cause that this group was advancing, she talked about the state of the law across the country.  When she returned to her native Oregon, she called out the fact that at that time there were only 14 states in the United States where wives and mothers even had joint guardianship of their own children.  I think we can all assume that in all the other states the wives and mothers were still playing the same role in raising their children. 
And more than anything else, I think that story shows that, as she argued, women could not have equal rights under the law unless they attained the right to vote.  But what it also showed is that one couldn't win for women the right to vote without the help of lawyers who happened to be women.   
That's a message that speaks to me in my job.  One of the wonderful things about my job is the amazing group of people I get to work with every day.  As you heard, we have over 1,100 people.  We have about 600 lawyers.  But what is most unique about our department is the fact that we work in 55 countries 
around the world, to the best of my knowledge more countries than any other corporate legal department, and I know more countries than any law firm has a presence around the world. 
The individuals in our department represent 51 nationalities, and they speak 40 different languages.  Every day I'm in awe of being able to work with people who speak 40 different languages.  Until I get my first cup of coffee in the morning, I cannot even speak one.    It's a wonderful experience. 
What I want to share with you today is a few of the lessons I've learned and a few of the people that I've had the opportunity to learn from – because that is truly what has made all the difference to me in the 12 years that I've been in this job and in the 21 years that I've been at Microsoft. 
I was extraordinarily fortunate that I had the opportunity to learn what was quite possibly the most important lesson early in my career at Microsoft.  As you heard, I joined the company in Europe in late 1993.  I was the leader of what was actually a very small team at the time, the European Legal and Corporate Affairs team.  There were five of us who were lawyers in the Paris office.  And I really learned my first valuable lesson from a lawyer named Nancy Anderson, who happens to be here today. 
Nancy had joined Microsoft about a year before me.  And after a year or so of working together, in late 1994 Nancy came and talked to me in my office.  She said to me, “I don't think that you fully appreciate what I can do.  I think I can do more than the projects that you've giving me.  You might even be giving bigger opportunities to a couple of men on the team.  And I want you to think more about me.” 
Nancy walked me through her reasoning, which as always was very well put together.  I listened and I said, “You know, I had not thought about this, but I can see how it looks to you, and you may be right.  So let's work together on this.  Let's identify some projects.  Let's give you bigger opportunities.  And I will do what I can to learn and hopefully to help you succeed.” 
In the years that followed Nancy took on more in Paris, and then we promoted her to lead our antipiracy team in North America.  And then after that we promoted her to lead the legal team that included the rest of the Western Hemisphere as well.  And then in 2001, seven years after that first conversation, we promoted her to lead all of our legal teams outside of the United States.  It was a position she held for the next 11 years, and when she retired in 2012 she was leading a team of 400 people. 
I think we can all agree that one thing is perfectly clear: when Nancy came to me in 1994 and said that she could handle more responsibility, she was right.   
Ever since the day we had that conversation, I have forever been grateful that she came to me and raised those concerns with me.  And to be honest, I have forever felt a little bit bad that she had to come raise those concerns in the first place.  And I resolved as a result of that conversation that I needed to do a better job.  It was really my failing in part to appreciate everything that she had to offer. 
I resolved that I would do a better job both having an open door to make people comfortable to raise the kinds of concerns that Nancy had raised with me, and to focus on spotting the wonderful talent that was all around me.   
In a sense it was the benefit of that first lesson that enabled me to learn the importance of the second one.  It was a lesson that I began to learn in 1996, when I had the opportunity to work with Pamela Passman, who is also in the room today. 
I had worked with Pamela when we were both associates at Covington and Burling.  And when I was promoted at Microsoft to move from Europe back to the Seattle area in 1996, one of the first positions I needed to fill was the senior legal and corporate affairs position for the North Asia team based in Tokyo.  
I knew that Pamela had worked on two prior occasions in Japan.  And I knew from my first-hand experience just what a terrific lawyer she was.  So I approached her and I offered her that job. 
I will always remember shortly after I offered the job the conversation I had with one of our senior business leaders in the company, a man.  He said to me, “look, I'm all in favor of creating more opportunities for women, but do you really think this makes sense to do in Japan?”  “This is not a country,” he said, “that has women in these kinds of roles.”  He said to me, “look, it's your call, but I have to wonder whether it's the right one.”   
I looked at him and I said, “thank you . . . for acknowledging that it's my call.”    I said “I believe that you will find that she is the best person who can possibly do this job.” 
And we went forward.  I learned that day that there are times when you need to stand up for other people.  But what was most remarkable was that I stood up for Pamela on that day, and then each and every day that followed she went to work in Japan and she stood up for our company.  And what was most amazing came two years later, as we were in the midst of antitrust investigations around the world and the Japanese Fair Trade Commission, the JFTC, was pursuing an investigation of us.  As we went to work to try to settle that case, there ensued a negotiation between the JFTC and Microsoft, and Pamela was the one who led that negotiation for us.  At the time that she did so she was more than eight months pregnant.  I have seen many negotiations around the world, and I will tell you that this negotiation had a deadline unlike any other.   
Pamela negotiated a settlement and in truth it was one that back at the company’s headquarters we all thought was quite good.  And I'll remember to this day the moment a few months later when that same business leader who had been concerned about our hiring Pamela stopped by my office.  He said to me, “I just want you to know I remember those comments I made to you when you hired Pamela.  And I just want to say that you were right and I was wrong.”  That meant a lot to me, because I will forever feel bad that he had the reaction he did in the first place.  And I will forever feel grateful that he came by to say what he said.  Years had passed, and he easily could have forgotten, or even more he could have pretended to have forgotten. 
It gave me an appreciation that part of what I needed to do was not only stand up for other people, but give other people who might not have shared the same point of view at the outset the opportunity to come along as they grew a little bit older and a little bit wiser.   
What is most remarkable to me is not just the success that Pamela had in Japan, not just the success that she had in the years following when we promoted her and she was the person who led our corporate affairs work on a global basis, but the way the door that she opened for us in Japan is a door that other women at Microsoft have opened since in so many other countries around the world. 
We have had women lead our legal and corporate affairs teams in Korea, in Japan, in Singapore, in Australia, and in India.  In Germany, France, Spain, Italy, Romania, Hungary, and the Ukraine.  In Colombia and in Brazil, and now in Egypt, in Turkey, in Nigeria, Kenya, and South Africa.  If you look at the 55 countries where we have teams, women are leading 22 of them. That is a testament in my view to the enormously talented leaders we have been so privileged to have working with us.   
And that in a sense leads me to the one other lesson and person I'd like to talk about.   
When I started in this job, one of the first conversations I had, certainly one of the most memorable conversations for me to this day, was one I had with Mary Snapp.  Mary was the very first woman to 
become a lawyer at Microsoft.  She's here today.    Mary joined our company and our department 28 years ago and became the second most senior person in our department.   
We sat down and we talked about diversity.  We talked about what we wanted to do about diversity.  We talked about the big dreams we had to actually do something that would matter. 
But what I'll always remember as part of that conversation is that we resolved together that before we ever went out and talked publicly about diversity, certainly before we accepted any award from anybody, we were determined not just to be in a position to talk about diversity, but to do something that would have an impact.  And we said to ourselves, “we have big dreams, we have some things that are good today, but we have so much to do ahead of us.  Let's focus on getting something done.  And if we actually do something worth talking about, then we'll go share it with others.” 
When I look back at the last 12 years there are so many lessons we learned, and to be honest there are so many lessons we still have to learn, because I think this issue continues to evolve in new and very interesting and important ways every year.  But one of the lessons that we learned early on, to this day in my own mind remains the most important.  At the end of the day diversity is about demographics, at least in part.  Demographics are about numbers.  And we decided that we would create a short list of measurable goals for our department.  And we resolved that we would stick with those goals on a sustained basis each and every year. 
When we started we created two goals.  The first goal we created for ourselves was to increase the percentage of lawyers who are women by at least 1 point every year.  Now, interestingly, there were concerns about this goal, including from some of our own employment lawyers.  After all, if you create a measurable goal, if you talk publicly about a measurable goal, there are other problems you can run into.  Mary and I thought about it, we talked about it with others, and I concluded, she concluded, and we concluded that we could manage this lawfully.  And by the way, if this was something we were going to be sued for, this was a case we wanted to fight, because we believed it had a principle that was worth standing up to defend. 
But more important than that was the impact this has had.  When we started, when we had that conversation 12 years ago, 22 percent of the lawyers at Microsoft were women.  Today 36.5 percent of our lawyers are women.  So we've grown that by 14-and-a-half points over 12 years. 
And, of course, if you think about creating a department where 50 percent of the lawyers are women, it causes you to realize that in over 12 years we've moved halfway from where we started to where we want to go.  I do think that has an important lesson for us as well.  It's a powerful reminder that a goal can be so important and big that it may take a quarter-of-a-century to achieve it in all of its fullness. It may take one group to start it and others to finish it.  And yet we felt it was the right place to focus. 
Similarly, the second goal we set for ourselves was to increase the percentage of our employees in the United States who were minorities by half a point each year.  And over the last 12 years we've grown that from 14 percent to 24 percent.   
And in both areas we’ve recognized naturally as time has gone by that it's not enough just to have a diverse population of lawyers.  We want to have a diverse set of leaders who are representative of all of these groups as well.  And we're making progress.  We're not quite as far along: 36.5 percent of our lawyers are women, and 30.2 percent of our top leadership ranks are women; 24 percent of our lawyers are minorities, and 19.4 percent of our leaders are minorities. 
But what is important to me is that we know our numbers.  And what is even more important than that is because we know our numbers, every summer when I write my own personal self-evaluation that goes to the CEO and a committee of the board, I write it to include not just the diversity activities that we pursue, but the impact that we have had. 
Over the course of these 12 years, we've decided that it wasn't enough just to focus on what we were doing internally.  We wanted to do more to focus on what we were doing externally as well.  And we chose two goals in those spaces as well.  One was the percentage of our legal spending that was going to women and minority-owned legal firms, WMBE firms.  When we started, 1.4 percent of our spending was going to WMBE firms.  We set a new goal.  We said we wanted in three years to get that to 4.5 percent.  And I can tell you that six years later we're at 7.4 percent.  Because we set a measurable goal, we focused people's attention, we went out and met more people, and we hired more firms. 
And in some ways the most interesting thing we've done, at least if you define interesting as something that is unique, is a program that we created and called our Law Firm Diversity Program.  We look at the firms that are in our premier provider program, a number of very large firms across the country.  And six years ago we decided that diversity was something worth paying for.  We knew from our own experience that a diverse team of lawyers was likely to be a more successful team of lawyers.  We wanted more diverse teams of lawyers to represent us, not just inside our department but at the firms with which we worked. 
And we said to ourselves, “we live in a world and we work in a market economy where people pay for performance.  People pay for the things they care about.  We care about diversity.  We know it matters for performance.”  And we decided that at the end of each fiscal year we would pay to each of these firms a 2 percent bonus on all the fees they generated over the year if they met one of several defined, measurable diversity goals.   
We said there are various ways people could do it.  If the representation by diverse attorneys on the hours worked for Microsoft grew by 2 points year over year, a firm would earn its bonus.  If the diverse representation within their attorney ranks as a whole grew by half a point a year, the firm would earn its bonus.  And if the firm had a more diverse attorney population than we do at Microsoft, they would earn their bonus even if they did nothing at all.  We said, “If you're better than us, we'll pay you for being better for us.  Just know that we're going to get better every year.”  Today 56.3 percent of our lawyers in the United States are either women or minorities.  Last year there was one firm that earned its bonus because it was better than us. 
But looking back six years later, the progress to me has been remarkable on one important indicator.  When we started, the percentage of hours worked for Microsoft by diverse lawyers in these firms was 33.6 percent.  When we ended the fiscal year this year in June, that number had risen to 49.8 percent.  We have seen a 16-point increase in only six years.  That, in my opinion, is diversity worth paying for. 
But there's another side of the coin that isn't nearly so encouraging, because if you look at the attorney population of all of these firms as a whole, in six years their diversity has grown collectively by less than 1 point.   
What's the lesson?  To me it's clear:  if one client stands up and says it will pay for diverse representation, that client will get more diverse representation.  But if we want to grow the diversity of the profession as a whole, we all need to find new ways to stand up together.  That is the only way we will obtain the next real breakthrough. 
When I look back at the last 12 years and the experiences we've had, I love the opportunity to build on the lessons that I've learned and the lessons that all of us have learned together.  I love even more the opportunity to keep learning from the amazing people I get to work with every day. 
But in addition to that, all of this work has left me with three very strong core convictions about how I think about diversity.   
First, I believe that diversity needs to be one of the core values of the legal profession.  And in fact, it needs to become even more central to our profession than it is today.  When you think about our country, every year it is becoming more diverse.  All you need to do is read the news to see that.  And yet if you think about our country, there are really just a few core things that bind us together.  It's the democratic principles and the freedom of expression that are enshrined in the Constitution.  It's a healthy respect for the opinions of others.  And it is an abiding and deep appreciation for the rule and the role of law.  It is those three things that enable 316 million people in a country as diverse as ours to succeed in their own lives. 
And yet when you think about those things, they all clearly rely on the country having a healthy legal profession.  We are here to serve the country.  We need to be as diverse as the country we serve.  That is the first conviction that I have come to appreciate. 
The second conviction that I've developed over the years is a deep appreciation for the fact that diversity is not just important for our profession; it is important for our country.  Every morning I get out of my car and I walk into the office building where I work in Redmond, Washington.  And most days if I'm not running too fast to get out of the Seattle rain, I like to remind myself that although I work in this one corner of the United States, 96 percent of the world's population lives outside of the United States. 
If you think about our future as a country, it will turn on our ability to invent the products that the world needs and to deliver the services that the world requires.  One of the things I've learned over the years in traveling around the world is that Americans, actually more so than most people, are very comfortable talking about what we think makes our country special.  I believe our country is special.  I believe it's special in many ways, but I believe it is special in one way that is not only objective, but is statistically accurate and verifiable, and I would argue indisputable, and it is true in a way that we do not discuss. 
If you look at the world as a whole, there is no country that has a population that better reflects the population of the world than the population of the United States.   
When we think about our future as a country, diversity is our strength.   
We need to recognize that it's a strength.  We need to embrace it.  We need to nurture it.  And we need to use it as a strength in order to better understand the world and create the jobs that will serve the world in the years ahead. 
And finally I've come to one last conviction.   
As important as diversity is to the legal profession and to the country, I actually think it's even more important to people.  If there's one thing I've come to appreciate, it's the power of creativity that is unleashed when you bring together a diverse group of people.  It makes everybody better.   
When I think about my role as a white male, as somebody who grew up in the middle of the country, in a middle-income family, with a last name that was the most common name in the middle of the phone book, you might not think of me as somebody who would necessarily be interested in diversity.  And yet, 
if there is one thing that I have learned year in and year out, it's that the opportunity to work with diverse people makes me better.  It makes all of us better.  It makes us better lawyers and even more than that, it makes us better people.  And that, too, is something we need to keep in mind and embrace and remind everyone else about. 
When I put it all together I think about what Olive [Stott Gabriel] might think if she came back 100 years after that conversation about women’s suffrage.  I think we could impress her with the progress that the country and the profession have made.  But I think we would be quick to point out to her that we still have more work ahead of us.   
And I know we would be quick to stand up and say to her that because we have more work ahead, we all know that we are not done yet.  That, as much as anything else, is the opportunity that all of us and all of you can help us move forward to address. 
I appreciate that the road ahead is long and it is winding.  There may be days when the road feels like it's going uphill.  There may even be days when we feel that we're going backwards rather than forward.  But, from all of the experiences I’ve had, from all the lessons I’ve learned, I know that this is a path worth pursuing.   
And so I hope all of you will remember this:  each morning when you leave home to go to the office, you're not just going to work. Your presence is making your office a better place. 
Thank you very much.  
I have some time for questions. 
  Hi, Brad.  I'm Mary Cavanaugh and after 23 years at AT&T as an associate general counsel, I decided to pick and move to a position with a nonprofit organization, Texas Loves Children, and I’m loving that.  I highly recommend it for those of you who are thinking about going that way.  And so I thought I'd give you this opportunity to do a little pitch for KIND, which I know is very dear to your heart, because I know those nonprofits need all the marketing and advertising they can get.  So please share with us about KIND and your passion for that. 
  Sure, I'd love to.  First let me give you a little bit of context.  KIND stands for Kids In Need of Defense, a pro bono organization that a number of us at Microsoft have been involved in and I cofounded in 2008.  But, let me first add the context that I shared when I had the opportunity to speak to a group of students at Harvard Law School the day before yesterday.  One thing I said was that when it comes to working with law firms, as a client I want three things.  I want great people; I want them doing great work; and I want to focus with them on diversity and pro bono.  I talked about diversity and then I talked about my pro bono work.  In part I explained that it's an important responsibility that all of us have as lawyers, but I also talked about the connection that I personally believe is important between pro bono work and diversity. 
I said that whenever a lawyer does pro bono work you are almost certain to work with a client who is different from yourself.  Almost by definition, if any of us need to hire a lawyer we'll probably be able to afford one, and hence even out of the gate we're different from a pro bono client in that regard.  But so often when we work with pro bono clients we work with people of a different economic background, perhaps a different age, perhaps a different race, or a different religion.  And I told these students that I believe that if they can learn how to represent a client who is different from themselves, they will 
develop skills that will serve them well as a lawyer and in their life about learning from and connecting with other people who are different from themselves. 
And certainly our experience with KIND in part has been all about that.  It started out as work that we at Microsoft began over a decade ago in the Seattle area, when we decided that we would make immigration work our signature pro bono effort.  In part this is because in many ways we are a company of immigrants, with employees coming from around the world.  And we started representing kids who had been separated from their parents who were going through immigration proceedings. 
After about four years a group from Los Angeles came up to give us an award, because they said that Washington State was the only state in the country where every child who was separated from their family and who was going through an immigration proceeding had the benefit of being represented by a lawyer.  And I was actually quite surprised by that.  I started asking questions such as how many of these kids are there?  What do they need?  The truth was nobody knew. 
Out of that effort we came together and KIND was created.  And the wonderful thing about KIND is it seeks to provide each child who is separated from his or her parents with a lawyer in an immigration proceeding.  We're operating in eight cities.  We actually are one of the largest pro bono organizations in the country.  Over 6,000 pro bono lawyers have gotten involved, as we’ve built a partnership among 221 law firms, legal departments, and law schools around the country.  And along the way we've focused on using this effort to reinvent, if you will, a model for pro bono representation, not only to scale up, but to try to get lawyers and paralegals and others across boundaries inside legal departments, and between law firms and companies, all working together hand-in-hand. 
So it's a wonderful thing in my view.  But I think most importantly, it's actually been very important for a lot of kids.  For many of them it's given them not just the right to stay in the United States, it's literally made the difference in whether they're alive today, because it ensured that they weren't deported to a country where their life and safety was at risk.   
  Hi, I'm Ann Baker from the New York office of Perkins Coie.  And I wanted to     
  Perkins Coie is the one firm that earned its bonus by being more diverse than us last year.   
  That's not why I'm asking.    But, I have to say just thinking in particular about the pro bono work with respect to immigration cases.  That's one thing that we focus on, too, and it couldn't be more important.  The cases that I've tried over the years that have given me the most pleasure and most gratification are the pro bono ones. 
But what I wanted to ask you is, from the GC's perspective we wear so many different hats, what is the one issue in the United States that keeps you up at night? 
  Well, if there were only one issue I would get a lot more sleep.     
Let me just offer a couple of comments.  First, my role is really in a lot of ways to synthesize a lot of different issues and disciplines.  One of the points we really focus on at Microsoft is the need to bring together people who are lawyers and paralegals, who are lobbyists, oftentimes who are engineers, who are communications specialists, from a whole variety of different perspectives.  And it becomes my role to make sure that those dots are connected.  
I sleep a heck of a lot better at night, because frankly we have so many terrific people who then lead the work on all of these issues on a daily basis.  And if there's one thing that I have to focus on every day, it's ensuring that we have the right people in the right roles, that we have teams that are healthy, that people are growing, that they're developing, that they're enriched, and they're doing great work. 
And so there are a few things that I do look at.  One is our attrition rate.  All of us in the senior ranks of our department are proud that we have a low attrition rate.  Last year our attrition rate was 5.1 percent.  It was 5.3 percent for men and 4.9 percent for women.  So the first thing we need to focus on as a senior team is to make sure that our people are growing and our teams are strong. 
The second thing I focus my time on, and in a way it is the one thing that I am most uniquely positioned to address at least within our department, is to ensure that we have clear goals.  Just as you heard me talk about with respect to diversity, in everything we do I'm a big believer in trying to define clear goals up-front and make them as measurable as possible.  And the truth of the matter is if we have clear goals, healthy teams, and the right allocation of resources against our priorities, then I have a lot of confidence that great work is going to follow. 
And of course I do need to spend my time on those issues where I believe my personal time is needed and where it can make the biggest difference.  This fall in part it's around the government surveillance issues that are affecting our industry and our company around the world.  But that type of priority changes every year.  The constants are really the focus on having healthy teams and clear goals. 
  Brad, my name is Dorothy Denberg.  I’m also with AT&T and I’m the former President of NAWL, and I want to thank you so much for being with us today, and for your leadership.  You are unique, I think, in the corporate legal departments across the country in terms of the gains you've made. And, I’m not sure if it’s her name but I believe it was Pamela, I want to thank her for having had that conversation with you. 
Along those lines, can you speak about how you think we break that next barrier with the boardroom and getting women on boards? 
  It's a great question.  And I think it's good for groups that represent diverse peoples to push for more diversity.  Diversity groups are doing that.  I think that's appropriate.  I think it's completely reasonable and even helpful to have groups look at boards of directors and ask whether boards have enough diverse people. 
At Microsoft we’ve made some progress.  The chairman of our board is an African-American.  We have two women who are directors.  Our board is more diverse than it was a decade ago, and it’s less diverse than I would hope it might be a decade from now.  I think that it requires constant attention. 
I think that one can broaden the question a bit and ask about opportunities or roles for women in leadership positions in companies, and opportunities and roles for minorities in leadership positions in companies as well.  And I will say I think it's good that groups continue to raise awareness about this as well. 
I can say that I don't think that there is a single day when I go to work and don't think at least for a few minutes about diversity in some way or another.  Maybe I'm thinking about our numbers, more often I'm thinking about people.  I'm thinking about new people I meet.  I'm thinking to myself, wow, that's a good person, how do we ensure that we keep that person and give that person more opportunities.  I think it requires that kind of thought every day.  
And I will say I think it requires that those of us who are leaders be prepared to call out those situations where we're less diverse than we want to be.  When I go to a meeting, the first thing I tend to do whenever I walk into a room to meet with a team around the world is ask, is this a diverse team or not?  And if I have a meeting with a team that's all men, I usually at the end of the meeting try to make a point, saying, “this was a really good meeting, this was really good work, but I think we could have more diversity represented in this team as we look to the future.”  And that's the last thing I say before the meeting ends.  So people know that I'm thinking about it.  And I do think that it requires that one have that kind of focus.  
The last thing I'll say is that diversity is going to require something that we saw demonstrated very recently at Microsoft that may be the question that is on many of your minds, but everyone is too polite to ask.  As you may have heard, our CEO Satya Nadella spoke at the Grace Hopper Conference, which is a conference for women in the computer science field.  He was asked what advice he would give to women who were thinking about a raise, and what he did was share the advice that he had received himself and followed in his own career, which was about focusing on doing great work rather than asking for more money. 
And there was a lot of focus in the media on that. 
But there is a deeper lesson because Satya, in my opinion, did what perhaps all men, and perhaps what all people, need to be prepared to do in order to lead effectively and build diversity.  He was quick to acknowledge that he made a mistake.  Within three hours he sent an e-mail to our employees.  I remember talking to him just before he sent it.  He had just gotten off a plane.    And he already had the words in his mind that he wanted to use.  He said not that he was “wrong”, but that he was “completely wrong”. 
And in talking to him and working with him in the days that followed as he put together another e-mail for all of our employees, I was so impressed by the way he stepped back and looked at these issues.  As he said to us, he really tried to think not just about the mistake he had made, but why he had made the mistake in the first place. 
And he said in the most explicit terms possible to our 100,000 employees that he had been “incredibly insensitive”.  That was the exact phrase he used.  He said he had been insensitive to take the advice that he had received himself and apply it to half of humanity without appreciating the bias, conscious or unconscious, or other problems or discrimination that people had faced.  And he resolved to use that learning not just to make himself better, but to help make all of us better. 
For me, one of the unfortunate aspects of the whole episode was that lost in all of the media coverage was the fact that Satya had done something that no other male CEO in our industry had ever done before.  He devoted two full days to go to this conference to attend the panels because he wanted to learn first-hand what the issues were and the challenges were for women, because he wanted us to get better at diversity. 
And when he came back he sat down with our senior leadership team and he talked to our board and he said he was 100 percent focused on how we could use that experience, even though it was difficult, and turn it into something positive – so we can move from having better words to stronger deeds. 
So if you ask me, what will it take to build more diversity in the boardroom?  What will it take to build more diversity in the senior ranks of companies?  It will take more men who are willing to admit that they made a mistake, who will say that they want to learn, who will say that they want to listen, and 
who will take that and translate that into action that is effective.  And that is what I hope we’ll see at Microsoft in the future.   
  I want to thank Brad for his inspired words, honesty, and addressing the pink elephant in the room.  It's truly appreciated.   
  Good morning.  My name is Charlie Gibson.  I used to be a television host.  I used to be a television anchor.  I used to be a television reporter.  I don’t know what in the world I am today.  But I’m going to be sort of the wrangler today.
If you’re here today or if you’re watching on a computer screen somewhere either in Europe or Washington state or Washington city, then we’re going to presume that you know a good deal about this case and operate on the assumption that you know the particulars and the issues that lie behind it.
In the matter of a warrant to search a certain e-mail account controlled and maintained by Microsoft Corporation.  It’s not a very catchy title.  I think maybe 50 Shades of Privacy might get more attention.  Microsoft and those companies or organizations who support its position on the one side and the government on the other obviously have vastly different views of this case.
A quotation that was at the very top of the Magistrate Judge James Francis’ decision last April came from the Stanford Law Review, and I think it is something probably that everybody can agree on.  That quotation is:  “The rise of an electronic medium that disregards geographic boundaries throws the law into disarray by creating entirely new phenomenon that need to become the subject of clear legal rules.”  And the hope is that this case will produce clear, legal rules that establish lines laying people’s right to privacy against the government’s right to investigate potential crimes.
Both sides make powerful points.  We’re going to try to explore some of them today.  Microsoft has convened this meeting today and you’ll hear a lot about their point of view.  But in questions, I’m going to try and present some of the government’s points as well.  If you have followed the case, you are acquainted with Brad Smith.  He is the executive Vice President and General Counsel at Microsoft, and he’s going to start with some remarks about why he wanted to bring you all together today here in this room and those who are watching on the web.
Brad.
  Thank you, Charlie.  And thank you to those of you who are here with us in New York, or are watching in Washington, D.C., in Brussels, and Washington state, literally around the world.
Let me just take a few moments to set the context for some of this building on the video and Charlie’s comments.  In a sense we’re here today to talk about the latest chapter in a story that has literally been unfolding for over two centuries.
It’s really the story about the intersection between changing technology and the need to keep the public safe and also protect people’s privacy.  It’s a story that began in some ways when Benjamin Franklin founded the Post Office.  People sent their letters in the mail and law enforcement needed to investigate what criminals invented as a response, which was mail fraud.
In the 1800s people invented the telegraph.  Criminals invented wire fraud.  Law enforcement needed to investigate it.  In the last 30 years we saw the rise of the computer and then the Internet, and lo and behold, today we have Internet fraud, Internet crime, and just as in the past the question for our generation is how to strike the balance between strong privacy and public safety in an era where technology continues to change.  That story today brings us not only to New York, but to the story about e-mail that is stored in Microsoft’s data center in Dublin.
It’s in Dublin for a reason.  It’s because we tend, like most tech companies, to store e-mail and other private communications in a data center that is closest to the customer.  So for example, when we have a customer who is based in Europe, we store their e-mail in Europe that way they’re able to access it faster and more securely.  Of course all of this creates issues.  And one of these issues began literally a year ago this week.  That’s when Microsoft went to court to contest the search warrant issued by the United States government to access and obtain the e-mail that is stored in Dublin.
Now, last Monday we at Microsoft filed our brief in this legal case.  It’s a brief that gave us the opportunity to point out that while this may be a story and a case about Ireland it’s also a case about the rights of Americans, because if the United States government after all takes a certain approach and reaches into data centers in other countries we have to assume that other governments will follow.  And they’ll do the same thing.  And when they are interested in the e-mail of Americans stored in the United States we will have a difficult precedent with which to grapple.
It’s also a case that raises important questions about the rights of people in other countries.  Will they continue to have their privacy rights protected by their own laws?  And fundamentally it really raises the question how do we think about e-mail, or text messages, or photos, or all the documents that we create, because unlike the mail that you put in a letter and entrust to the government in the form of the Postal Service, the U.S. government has argued in this case that your e-mail when stored in the cloud and located in a data center ceases to belong to you alone.  Instead it becomes a business record of a tech company, as well, with profound implications, as you’ll hear this morning.
Now, last week was our brief.  The reason we’re here today is because this is the day when a number of groups are filling their amicus, or friend of the court briefs.  Ten briefs are being filed today.  And even in the final hours, as more entities are signing on to some of these briefs, it’s already clear that 28 tech and media companies are signing on to support these briefs, 35 leading computer scientists from 20 universities have submitted a brief.
You’ll hear a short video from Ed Lazowska, one of the professors who is involved in that brief explaining their point of view on some of the technology questions.  And there are signatories in the form of 23 different trade associations and advocacy groups, associations that represent literally millions of people in companies on both sides of the Atlantic.
All of these briefs make one thing abundantly clear, this is a case that involves not just a narrow legal issue, but a broad public policy issue that is fundamental to the future of technology in a global economy.  And that’s really why we organized this event this morning.  It’s an opportunity for people to begin to hear a little bit more about the wide array of interests that are at stake.  And indeed, as you’ll see in the briefs that are being filed today, this is an issue that has now brought together people from a cross section of groups.
You’ll see tech companies who are concerned about the impact on trust in American technology and the rights of customers.  There are briefs from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers concerned about what this means for the future of businesses’ ability to rely on the cloud.  There are civil liberties groups concerned about what the case means for the Constitutional and statutory protection of privacy rights.
There are media and news organizations concerned about what this means for the ability of journalists to protect their e-mail and ultimately shield sources from government access and investigation without their news organizations knowing about it.  And there are European groups who have an obvious concern about what this means for the privacy protection of people who live in Ireland and across the European Union.
Ultimately, though, this a part of an ongoing conversation, and one of the things that is always important for us at Microsoft, I think, to underscore is that we recognize that it is a conversation that is not all about one side being right and the other side being wrong.  It’s about safety and privacy.  And I think most of us would share the view that we want to live in a world that values both and finds a way to develop new solutions.
Those solutions may come from the court or they may come from the Congress, or they may come from the White House.  And one of the things we’ll have a chance to talk a little bit about this morning is what some of those solutions may look like as well.  It’s why this is an important conversation.  And it’s why the day where we’re filing and seeing the filing of amicus briefs, a day that ordinarily doesn’t attract as many headlines in this instance really creates a very powerful opportunity to talk not just about the narrow and the immediate but the broad and the long-term as well.
So as I said, thank you very much.  Thank you, Charlie.  We look forward to this conversation.
  We’re going to have a couple of panels.  I should introduce the members of the first panel who have jumped on stage here.  Victoria Espinel is President and CEO of BSA, The Software Alliance; and Andrew Pincus is a partner at Mayer Brown law firm, an advisor to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers.
The two panels are going to be about an hour.  So if you’re here in the room, we’ll get you out to lunch.  If you’re watching in Europe, we’ll get you off to dinner.  If you’re watching in Washington state, we’ll get you to breakfast.  And if you’re in Guam, you’re just out of luck, I guess.  I don’t know.
Brad, you’ve lost two rounds in this case.  You lost at the Magistrate level.  You lost at the District Court level.  Why don’t you give them the damned e-mails?
  The amazing thing about a court case like this is that the only thing that matters is who wins the final round.  So I think that’s the short story.  The principle is important.  And this case has a long ways to go.
  And it seems to me as I look at this as a journalist that the results of this particular case may not be as important in the long run as the basis on which it is decided, and what the long-term rules that may be promulgated here will be.
You’re basing your argument on two things.  You base your argument on the fact that you shouldn’t have to turn over the content of e-mails held physically in another country.  And, second, you base your argument, not so heavily publicized, although you mentioned it a moment ago, on whether personal e-mails constitute business records or whether they’re the really sole possession of the person who was the correspondent.
In all seriousness, though, you base your argument that the data physically is overseas.  But this is a whole new world that has arisen since the operative law here that applies.  Nobody has to go to Ireland to get it.  It can be just retrieved by a simple keystroke.  So really it isn’t a search and seizure in Ireland, is it?
  Well, that is an argument that the government makes.  We absolutely believe it is a search and seizure in Ireland.  We store this data in a physical place.  And we don’t choose the place at random.  We choose it because it is where the customer is located.  And that’s important for the way the technology works.  Frankly, it’s also important for the protection of people’s rights.
One thing you see around the world is everybody wants to have their rights protected by their own law.  Try telling an American that their rights are no longer going to be protected by the Constitution, they’re no longer going to be protected by U.S. law.  They are going to be protected by Irish law or Chinese law or Brazilian law.  People are not entirely happy about that for lots of good reasons.  And that principle, too, is at stake here.
  But isn’t it rather happenstance where you happen to store it.  You store it near, perhaps, where the correspondent is.  And I can certainly envision a world where if somebody felt that they had dicey e-mails that they didn’t want the U.S. government to look at, they’d go and say, I want you to store it overseas, put it overseas so that the government can’t get it.
  That’s a very good point.  And it’s why we need to know where people are, and it’s why we’ve said throughout, look, if this were a matter of Americans trying to evade U.S. law by claiming to be a nationality that they’re not or claiming to live in a place where they’ve never been, that would be a different question.  And we do need legal rules that address those situations as well.
But, for the sake of those needs should we put the rights of the people in Ireland at risk?  Should we tell Europeans that they are now subject to U.S. law?  Should we tell Americans in the future that they’re subject to the law of some other country?  That doesn’t feel like the best way to strike the right balance.
  Judge Preska in her decision in the Second Circuit said nothing in the text or structure of the statute carves out an exception for records stored overseas, further quote, there is no overseas search here.
  Well, there’s two different concepts there.  And the first is actually a point, frankly, we would say in our favor.  There’s a principle of law in the United States that exists for good reason.  The principle is that no law passed by Congress applies outside the territory of the United States unless Congress explicitly says that it will.  And Congress did not say so here, as that quote basically reflects.  And there’s a good reason for that principle.  If Congress just passed a law and didn’t even have to think about it and suddenly it’s applying in Europe, or in South America, or in Africa, you can imagine the impact on the foreign relations of the United States.  So, in fact, given that Congress did not intend, did not say that this law would apply outside the United States so in principle would say that it did not.
  But, Brad, it’s a 1986 law.  It’s the Electronic Security Act, or the Electronic Storage Act, I’m sorry.  It was passed in 1986.  Nobody had a clue that we were going to have something like the cloud in that day, or that you could simply put an e-mail in Ireland and with a keystroke retrieve it.  So yes, they didn’t specifically say that this would apply overseas, but they also didn’t specifically say that it wouldn’t apply overseas.  And the courts found that there is precedent for saying that it can apply overseas.
  Well actually the law was passed in 1986.  It’s been amended in small ways since, in ways that made clear that it applied on a nationwide basis, so that a district court in one district could issue a warrant and it would be applied in other districts across the country.  And Congress chose to use that word nationwide for a reason.  It didn’t say internationally, it didn’t say globally.
  But, wasn’t that for issuance of a warrant or subpoena that it can be done nationwide, as opposed to actually applying to a search?
  Well, you can’t execute a warrant to obtain information without searching for it.  So it’s hard to have a seizure without a search preceding it.  The two basically go hand-in-hand.  And the fundamental question here is both how to strike the right balance between what are clear cut needs for public safety and personal privacy and of course also who should strike the right balance.  We all live in a country where at the moment we are plagued by more gridlock than almost anyone would think is a good thing.  That is self-evident.  It is a problem and we would be among the first to acknowledge that.
But, nonetheless, we have a Constitution that obviously predates the year 1986 by almost literally 200 years.  There are certain values that have served us well over time and, frankly, one of the values that has served us well is for these kinds of broad issues to be addressed by the Congress, to be addressed by the White House, and then for the courts to interpret the law rather than to try to add to it in a ways that go beyond their traditional role.
  I don’t want to leave the two of you out.  You have both ‑‑ both the organizations that you represent have filed amicus briefs, basically supporting the position of Microsoft.  But, on this question I guess in playing my old role I’m trying to make you the experts.  I would throw in a sound bite in the middle of the piece.  But, is it as simple as what Brad says, because it’s in Ireland, because it’s in Ireland this law can’t apply and the privacy of those correspondence, e-mail correspondence needs to be protected, or are we in a technological world now where because you can simply retrieve this information in Europe, one guy sitting at a computer can get this information, that it’s a whole new ballgame?
  I would say a couple of things.  One is you pointed out already that the age of some of the laws that we’re operating under, and technology moves very quickly, so if you think about it it’s not surprising that the laws that we have on the books today are outdated and outmoded for the world that we live in today.  And that’s why the software industry has been pushing the U.S. Congress to reform the laws that are on the books today so that they are in sync with both the technology and with our values.  And hopefully Congress will move on that.
But to the question you just asked, I think one of the things that we need to think about, and my background at an earlier point in time was as a trade negotiator, and so I’m well aware of the fact that other countries look to the United States as an example, as a good example or as a bad example.  And I think we need to think very carefully about the precedent that could be set here, and we need to think about what this means not just in terms of what U.S., what the Department of Justice wants to do overseas, but what that might mean for other governments who might see this, I think frankly almost definitely will see this as a precedent to reach into the e-mail of Americans.  And so I think this case is very important for the privacy of U.S. citizens.  But when you think about it as global context and the precedent that this sets for citizens around the world, and I think as Brad said we can talk maybe a little bit later on about some of the solutions there.
  We will.
  But I think keeping in mind the risk that this case brings in terms of undermining trust on both sides of the Atlantic is a very important part of this.
  Andy?
  I think as a legal matter it really is that simple.  I mean if you think about the pre-digital era, if some bank that operated in the U.S. also had a branch in Ireland and somebody had documents in their safe deposit box in Ireland, no one in the world would think that by serving a document on the bank here the U.S. Government could force the bank to retrieve those documents and send them over.
  But that’s where everything has changed.  That’s a physical piece of paper that you have to go in and get out of a safe deposit box, or a safe, or whatever.  This is not.
  But here’s the key, I think, that change, and you’re right technology has changed a lot, and the question is should that change in technology automatically without anyone thinking about it affect a huge expansion of the U.S. Government’s power at the expense of other nations?  Because if you think about it, that’s what’s happening here.  And I think there’s a really good analogy in the cell phone case that the Supreme Court decided last year.
Because the government’s arguments here are so similar.  There, as people probably know, the argument was when someone is arrested, the government has or the police have a right to search your person.  If they have a wallet, they can look inside.  And the government said, well, if you have a cell phone, we can download the entire digital content, same thing.  We’re just searching what’s on your body.
And the Supreme Court said, well, in some very remote sense that’s true, but the amount of information that the government would get by sort of mindlessly applying that same principle to this digital environment is vast and would undermine what the Fourth Amendment is trying to do.  And so the Supreme Court said, we’re not going to apply that rule in this mindless way to digitally stored data.  Here the government is saying, we’re not doing anything outside the U.S., so we get the benefit of the old warrant rules that said, oh, if you’re in the U.S. you’re fine.  But in the same way, of course, they’re doing something outside the U.S. in any real sense.  And I think the same rationale really compels the conclusion that courts shouldn’t do this.
As Brad said, if there’s an adjustment to be made, there’s a lot of weighing of privacy interest, of foreign relations interest that has to be taken account of.  But to sort of just say, we’re going to shoehorn this into this old rule because Microsoft happens to be in the U.S. really makes a dramatic change.
  The other quick thing I would add is, look, the world migrated away from all communication being on paper to other forms of technology not in the 21st century but in the 19th when the telegraph was invented.  We went from paper to basically electrical impulses that could be intercepted in different ways, they crossed over wires, there was a transatlantic cable. And fundamentally what the people of that era needed to decide was what did technology change versus what were the values that they wanted to see endure.  And this is the newest form of that question being asked in ways that may seem different, and in some ways not so much.
  Let me up into ground where I may be on unsteady ground here.  What if ISIS decided to store all of its e-mails, and I presume they do some communication that way, with Microsoft and said, put them in Ireland.  Do you still deny the U.S. Government the right?
  And this goes to Victoria’s point.  We need solutions, and we need solution that work.  And there are multiple solutions that work.  One of them is an existing agreement between the United States and Ireland.
  But you know the government says that’s cumbersome, it takes too much time, and it’s not definite that it will work.  And there are also countries where we don’t have these agreements.
  Sure.  But let’s start ‑‑ we can decide where we’re going to build data centers, the whole industry can.  And the industry can build data centers in countries that have proper legal regimes, and that’s the kind of thing that’s definitely is a consideration.
First of all, there’s a convention under which basically a government can apply for an order to freeze all of the e-mail, and it’s basically done instantaneously.  So you don’t have to worry about the e-mail being destroyed.
Second, in the case of Ireland, for example, we produced evidence in this case from a former Irish Attorney General who said that the Irish move very quickly, they seldom if ever turn down the United States government.  Of course, imagine these situations, governments are going to want to move quickly.  They can move as fast as they want.  And in addition, let’s just think about the opportunity that we all have to move these treaties into the future.
I mean, look, we live in a world where in the wake of 9/11 we first found that it was difficult to move people just through an airport.  And then people realized that you had trusted travelers.  They could qualify for pre-clearance and they could move forward quickly.
  So you’re fine if the Irish government said OK, come on in get the e-mails.  You just don’t want Microsoft to be the organ that turns them over.
  Yes, if the Irish government acts then you preserve a world where you have laws in both places and governments can work together and just put the shoe on the other foot.  If a government abroad needs data that’s in the United States we as Americans would want U.S. law and the U.S. government to be involved.  You can’t blame other people for feeling the same way.
  The other part of this is critical and I want all three of you to comment on this, which is the really interesting argument to me.  The government argues that e-mails are business records and that therefore, because of preexisting law, again back into the early ’80s, that you have an obligation to turn over business records.  You argue these are entirely personal communications that belong only to the communicant.  And yet the courts have sided with the government on that in both instances.  Comment on it some.
  So I would say, going back to something that Brad had alluded to before, I think the government can’t say our process is cumbersome, we have a process that doesn’t work very well, and so therefore we are going to take an outdated law and apply it to the circumstances of today.  If we need to have a new process, and I believe that we do, then we need to figure out what that new process is and we can talk more about that later.  But, I think it’s an important point to make.
In terms of the government’s argument with respect to business records, I would just say I think people, individuals, human beings, and companies store a lot of information in the cloud and they store some information that they might be fine to remain public, and they store a lot of information that is confidential.  And I think they believe it to be confidential and I think they are appropriate in being able to have the trust that it will be kept confidential.
And so I think saying that because you have confidential information you put in the cloud it’s no longer yours and it now belongs to the tech company that stores it, I think that is very much at odds with what people would believe to be true, and certainly what people would believe to be right.
  Andy, you’re next.
  I’ll give you an economic answer and a legal answer, as well.  I think in terms of the promise of cloud technology, which we haven’t talked that much about but we should, this is a revolution in terms of efficiency in data processing and in the lowering, significantly, company’s costs of managing their data, because it’s all pooled in one huge economy of scale.  But, companies, and certainly people, aren’t going to do that if it means they lose control over their proprietary information.  I mean, think about it from the company perspective, your intellectual property, your business plans, the legal records about your lawsuit, or about the merger that you’re thinking about, if by putting them in the cloud you lose control over them and the government just gets access whenever it wants, nobody is going to do that.  And so that economic benefit is lost.
  Brad, I wonder if you’d rename the cloud if you had a chance to do it, because it’s kind of a woo-woo word that sounds sort of soft and out there.  It’s like a soft toilet paper or something.  And yet you’re arguing this is hard information that exists in a place and it’s in Ireland, whatever.  What would you call it instead of cloud?
  Well, first of all, you raise a very valid point and ours is an industry that basically renamed the mouse, renamed the virus, renamed spam and guess what, we renamed the weather, as well.  And I do think it’s a challenge, because it makes it seem more ephemeral than it is.  And what we are dealing with it hard information stored in a single location.  And the real issue here, because this is fundamental, is just the way the government’s argument actually turns fundamental principles upside down.
Your telephone bill is a business record.  The government can get it by filing a subpoena with the telephone company.  But, your telephone call is not.  It’s a personal communication and it’s entitled to greater legal protection.  Your hotel bill is a business record, but if you are staying in New York and you came here this morning and you left your clothes in the closet and your documents on the desk the hotel needs to respect that that’s your personal possession, same for e-mail.
  Let me turn to something slightly different.  Someone pointed out that if the government wins this case that it’s a problem for privacy rights, but it’s also a big problem for the U.S. tech market, because people overseas, governments or individuals will be very wary of putting their information in the hands of an American company.  That’s a lot of money for you.  I’ve seen one estimate, it was an organ called Information Week, that the U.S. domestic cloud companies this is a $45 billion business, a $45 billion business that could be at risk.  So are your arguments totally high-minded, Brad, or are they very much concerned with the bottom line for Microsoft?
  It’s a completely fair and appropriate question and the answer is they’re both.  Of course, the entire tech sector, which Victoria represents, understands that this is about this country’s ability to continue to basically create technology that leads the world and has access to the global market, because if we lose we expect foreign governments, as we’re already seeing, are going to lay down more rules that will basically prohibit, or prevent, or make it more difficult for us to serve their customers.
And it is about economics, but it also is about a fundamental principle.  Ultimately it’s about trust.  So I like say tech companies have become a bit like banks.  You wouldn’t put your money in a bank if you weren’t confident that it would be there when you wanted to withdraw it.  You’re not going to put your data in a data center, or the cloud, run by an American company if you don’t have confidence about who can and cannot get access to it.
  Good.
  So I think clearly there are fundamental privacy concerns here, which we’ve discussed.  And there are clearly significant business interests that are as at risk, as well.  And I think the two things are very much linked, because you need trust in business the way you need trust in international relations, and the way you need trust in your personal relations.  Trust is a fabric that makes things work.  And if that trust is being undermined, and I think this case very much puts that at risk, that’s a real problem.  But, I would also say there are real business risks today.  I think this case, or the outcome of this case could have a real impact today.  We represent 3 million jobs in the United States, but a point that I’d like to make clear, because I think this is really important, is this is not just about damage to the American economy.  I think that’s an issue, but I think it’s bigger than that.  We are all in this global world together and I think the impact would ripple beyond that.
You talked about the cloud and the benefits that come from it.  I think one of the things we haven’t talked about yet, but we really need to make sure that we do, is the fact that this will, I believe, make companies and individuals much more reluctant to use the cloud, for a good reason.  And that has real implications.  There was an economist recently who did an estimate that if companies, just talking about companies here, not even individuals, if companies use data services and use cloud services to become just 1 percent more efficient, which is actually vastly less than data is suggesting, and 1 percent is a very conservative estimate, that will add $15 trillion to the global economy in 15 years.  That is an enormous lost opportunity if companies start pulling back from cloud and from all the computing capacity that that brings, because they have concerns about how their information is going to be treated.
  Andy?
  I was going to make the point Victoria did, which is this is certainly tech companies are on the front line, but this really is the whole economy, because these efficiencies ripple through the economy.  It means that there are billions more money to invest in new products, or jobs that previously were being spent on data processing, data management services, that are now cheaper because of the cloud.  And so for the U.S. government to say we are going to adopt a legal rule that is going to significantly discourage companies from doing that is going to hurt not just tech companies, but the whole economy.
  Brad, what percentage of people storing e-mails in Microsoft’s system come from overseas?
  It’s a great question.  I don’t know the precise answer.  But, I can tell you that roughly 60 percent of our business today is with customers outside the United States.  One question I always like to ask myself, or the fact I like to remind myself every morning, 96 percent of the people in the world live outside the United States.  So if you want the American tech sector to serve the world you have to appreciate that 96 percent of our customers eventually will be outside the United States.
  I asked that question really, because obviously you’re worried about whether foreigners will lose confidence it eh system if the government prevails.  Would you be fighting so hard if there weren’t a crisis of confidence after Edward Snowden?
  I will say no and yes.  We would, of course, devote our resources on any day of the week on the problems that are most pronounced and I would be sort of naïve, or less than genuine to say otherwise.
But I will say, yes, we would in important ways as well.  We’ve dealt with this tension since the early days of our company.  We dealt with it in the days after 9-11.  At the time, it was not public.  Some of this has become public because of the disclosures of the last 18 months.  So we’ve sought to really think hard about how to be principled, and principled in a way that serves public safety and protects fundamental privacy rights, regardless of how much attention this is getting.
  So let me turn to, you mentioned we should talk about potential solutions.  Are there solutions that would satisfy the privacy rights, would satisfy the government’s access to information, that would protect Americans from foreign incursion into our e-mails?  IS there a way to do that?  Some people have suggested a legislative solution.  Is there a way to do it?
  I think that could be part of it.  So first, I think there has to be a way to do that.  There has to be a way that we can balance the values that we believe in with helping law enforcement do its job to protect us and all that.  The conversation and that balancing has been going on ‑‑
  There has to be a way.  From your mouth to god’s ears, what is it?
  But I would say, and I think there’s at least three things that solution has to do.  One it has to be clear and predictable.  I think, at best, we are in the situation right now where there is a grave lack of clarity, and that is bad for everyone.
  Clear legal rules.
  I think it has to be international.  You mentioned the U.S. Congress, and certainly we have work to do here at home in terms of reforming our system.  We have been and we’ll continue to push very hard for that.  But I think it has to be an international consensus.  It has to be something that comes from the international community.  And I think while it comes from the international community, I do think it has to be a solution that is consistent with American values of due process and civil liberty.
  And there really are.  I just want to underline what Brad said before, there really are solutions in existence now.  I mean, the idea that we have to build something totally new I think is just not right.  There are these bilateral agreements between the U.S. and Ireland.  If the structure isn’t there to have an immediate request for data to the Irish authorities that’s immediately acted upon, it’s not rocket science to put that in place.
And there is this international convention on cybercrime that has very specific mechanisms for solving just this problem, how does Country A get electronic data that is in Country B?  And there are literally 24/7 mechanisms so that that data can be frozen and then gotten very rapidly.  So this is not the ‑‑ reinventing the wheel is not the problem here.
  And I would say in terms of bringing the international community together, that is always difficult to do.  I was a former trade negotiator.  I’ve been in a lot of trade negotiations.  I know how hard they can be.  I would say one advantage we have here ‑‑
  You can’t get the international community to agree that it’s Tuesday or Monday or any day.
  But here I think this is something where there is a real eagerness and real hunger to have a solution.  So unlike being in a negotiation where one side wants to be there and the other side really doesn’t, which is always a very difficult negotiating dynamic, I think this is, with perhaps a few countries as exceptions, I think this is an issue where you could find a broad swath of the international community that was willing to come together and find a process that works because it’s so important.
  Wait a second, of course you can’t get the international community to agree it’s Tuesday, because it’s Monday.  
  But I’m retired.  So I said to somebody the other day, my life is six Saturdays interrupted by a Sunday.
  This is definitely Tuesday.
But more to the point, you may not be able to get every government to agree, but do we really think we can’t reach an agreement with the government of Ireland?  Do we really think we can’t reach an agreement with the United Kingdom or with Germany?
I mean, our governments have collaborated on vital issues of national security for decades.  Why is this so much harder than everything else that we’ve been able to work on?  Why don’t we at least start?
It’s very easy to say a problem is insurmountable if no one tries to solve it.  And fundamentally that’s our call.  It’s let’s work together and see what we can do.
  You made mention in your prepared remarks that there are various ways that this problem could be attacked.  That it could be attacked in the Congress.  We mentioned that the laws which govern here are outmoded because they were passed in the early ’80s or mid-’80s.  You mentioned that Congress could act.  You mentioned that the White House could intercede in this case.  But your immediate imperative is that you have a court case proceeding.
What would you have the ‑‑ given a perfect world where Congress did something, and that’s somewhat at odds these days, but given the perfect world where Congress did something, what would you have them do?
  Well, I think there is actually a very good piece of legislation introduced a few months ago in the Senate by Senators Hatch, Heller and Coons.  And basically what it would affirm is that ordinarily this law does not reach outside the United States, but it would create an exception so that if you have an American citizen or a U.S. resident who somehow manages to store his or her e-mail outside the United States, then in that instance it would reach that contents.  And I think that’s a rule that other governments could get comfortable with and understand.
  So an American citizen?
  Yes, an American citizen, if it’s in Ireland, the U.S. law could still reach it.  The other thing the law does is call on the executive branch to do what we’re asking for here, which is let’s focus on these treaties and let’s figure out how we modernize them.
  So that, in your world, you would say in your perfect world where Congress does something, I still can’t get my head around that concept, but if Congress would say, all right, American e-mails overseas can be accessed by American governmental jurisprudence, or by governments who are seeking, but governments cannot reach into the United States, they can’t govern what foreign governments can do, but it would set a precedent in your mind that would keep foreign governments from coming in and accessing the e-mails of United States citizens.
  Exactly.  It would protect fundamentally the rights of Americans.
  How about encryption?  Is encryption the solution here?  If people encrypted their own e-mails, would that take care of the problem?
  Encryption definitely is important.  It protects in a wide array of scenarios.  Ultimately, one of the big questions that I think we’ll find we’re all spending more time talking about two and three and five years from now is what happens when e-mail or other data is encrypted and the service provider doesn’t’ have the key to decrypt it.
  Right.
  Obviously, that’s where things have been going the last few years.  That’s gotten a lot of attention.  In many ways, I would argue that the two biggest challenges to law enforcement in the United States are not the position that we’re taking in this case, but it’s No. 1 what they’ll do if foreign governments don’t even allow us to operate data centers in other countries because of concerns about this kind of law; or, No. 2, how will they navigate a world where there is more encryption and they’re not able to get the key from anyone.
And one of the points we consistently make is, if everyone wants to avoid an arms race in the technology space, there’s only one way to avoid it.  It’s arms negotiations that led to better laws.  And so all of these things actually come back and intersect.
  Final word.  We’re out of time, final word from each of you?
  Just to echo what Brad said, I think governments have a choice here.  One is to create laws that give their citizens confidence that there will be protection and due process before their information can be accessed, because if those aren’t in place then self-help through encryption really is the only choice.
  You’re going to get the final word.
  I think you talked about technology solutions, and I think that’s an important part of the discussion.  I think turning to the tech companies to find the solution here is suboptimal.  I think what we all really want is to live in a world where our governments have come together to agree on a process that we agree with and we feel is consistent with our values.  And so I think this case illustrates one of the many circumstances where tech companies are being caught in the middle of government and law enforcement and the individuals and companies and the consumers that they serve.
And I think it’s not the place we want to be.  And that’s not really where we want to start in terms of finding solutions.
  All right.  Thanks to the three of you.  Brad is going to be back up in a minute.  But before we call our second panel up here, a few comments from a practiced eye who looks at this with a practical bent.
This case, when finally resolved, obviously is going to be studied in classrooms as well as in boardrooms and government offices.  Among those who wanted to comment today, Professor Ed Lazowska of the University of Washington.  You’ll see him on the screen.
  I’m Ed Lazowska.  I’ve been a professor of computer science at the University of Washington for 37 years, a long time.  The group of people who signed on to this brief are a set of senior computer scientists who are experts in the design of large-scale distributed systems.  So these are people who are in many cases responsible for or at least deeply familiar with the technologies that underlie the cloud.  The goal here is to help the courts understand the technology that underpins the cloud, this abstraction, and to let them make the legal decision.
So I think there are several points we try to make in the brief, but the important point as I understand it, from the point of view of this case, is that data, my e-mail messages that are in the cloud exist in some location, or perhaps several locations.  It’s not just out there somewhere.  It’s in a data center.  The system knows where those are.  So that’s really important.  It’s not on my PC, but it exists somewhere.
Secondly, there’s no really new technology.  What’s in these data centers are 10,000 single board computers, each of which has a processor some storage, a disk drive, some flash memory, a network interface, nothing magic here.  It’s not in the cloud.  And those seem like really important points.
Third, most companies treat my documents and my e-mail as my property, not the company’s property, not some abstract entity’s property.  That’s mine in both a legal way and a technical way, a legal way because the terms of the service that the cloud provider has offered me make it clear that it’s my data not their data.  And technically it may be encrypted, for example, or something like that.  At the very least there are layers of protections applied to keep people other than me from accessing that.  And that’s particularly important, because in many cases multiple companies, sometimes competing companies, may use the same cloud provider, as I understand it, and from reading the court decision, the question of whether the data is located in a specific place is of importance in determining the outcome of this case.
What I can say authoritatively, and what my several dozen colleagues have also said authoritatively, is that data is in some known place.  If the U.S. government wanted to get access to the contents of someone’s room in a Hilton Hotel in England, just because Hilton is a U.S. company they couldn’t say to Hilton, hey, open that room and rummage through it for us and see what you can find.  The laws of England would presumably govern the access to that room, because that’s where the room resides.  And I think of that as being a reasonable analogy of the location of cloud data.  It’s in some physical place and I would presume that the laws of that physical place govern access.
So those are really, I think, the three key points.  It’s in a specific physical location.  The technology is what we’re used to.  It’s scaled up a lot, but it’s memory and disks and processors and what I put in the cloud is mine by the terms of service and the technology.
  I would love to be able to ask him questions about exactly that, but you’re going to be the people who gets them instead.
Our second panel consists of three individuals representing three different organizations, each of which has filed or is filling an amicus brief expressing concerns that this case could undercut privacy rights of individuals.  And each group approaches this from a different perspective.
With us is Nuala O’Connor, she’s president and CEO of the Center for Democracy and Technology; Faiza Patel, Co-Director of the Liberty and National Security program at the Brennan Center for Justice; and Bruce Brown who is from my old field, who is Executive Director of the Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press.
I just want to come to the title of your organization at the Brennan Center.  You’re Co-Director of the Liberty and National Security program.  So on the liberty aspect I’m sure you’re concerned with Microsoft’s position.  On the national security aspect you ought to be concerned about the government’s position, as well.
  I think that’s right.  But, I think it was explained in quite some detail in the previous panel.  It’s not as if Microsoft ‑‑ I’m sorry, the government has no way of getting this data.  There is a mechanism for getting this data, which is the Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty that they have with Ireland.  So it’s not a zero sum game where either Microsoft gets its way and the government gets no information or the government wins.
  You keep referring, and the other panel did, as well, to these mutual assistance treaties that exist.
  Right.
  what if the data center was in a country with which we didn’t have an MLAT, as they’re referred to?
 Well, first of all ‑‑
  There are countries with which we do not.
  That’s right.  But, I mean, first of all, as I think Brad pointed out, it depends on where a company chooses to put its data centers, whether it’s in a country that has a developed legal system and with which we have relations.  But, realistically you don’t have to have an MLAT in order to get cooperation from another country to get data.  There are lots of other, longer, older ways in which you can get this information.  And there are very few places in the world where the United States government isn’t going to be able to get cooperation in a normal case, which is what we’re talking about here.
  Nuala, why is your organization filing a brief?
  We’re concerned about the individual whose data is at issue here.  Think about the baby pictures you’re seeing for your new granddaughter, and all the e-mails I sent this morning to my kids’ teachers, and the babysitter, and the 18 other e-mails I sent before you all got up this morning.  These are my communications.  And we don’t even just think of them as property.  We at the Center for Democracy and Technology think of this as the digital self.  Your expression, our daily lives, it’s not just going to be e-mails.  Ten years from now it’s going to be every thought and every communication and every transaction I do will be online.  That’s not a business record, that’s my life.
  But listen, it’s all out there.  I know that in polls Americans say we’re very concerned with our privacy rights.  But so too do we know it’s all out there.  You put your credit card number out there six times a day, and now you even add the security number, which I don’t understand quite why it’s the security number if you’re telling everybody.
  It’s going to get worse.
  It’s out there.  It is available.  And, frankly, I’m not worried about the government coming in and taking my granddaughter’s baby pictures.  That doesn’t concern me.  You’re welcome to them.  I’ll show them to you.
  I know you will.  But today it’s is your granddaughter’s baby pictures.  Tomorrow it’s something else, it’s your ‑‑ god willing, I don’t even want to go to what it could be.  It’s ‑‑
  You don’t know me that well.  
  I’ve done my research.  It’s all online, right?
This is about the sanctity of your communications with each other, your family, your community, the companies, the good brand names you do business with online.  But even more, it’s about the blurring of the lines between the individual’s communication with corporations and community and the government.
The default setting for all of the technology in our daily lives cannot be that everything is going to end up in the hands of the federal government.  That should not be the presumption.  That wasn’t the presumption when it was paper letters stuffed under your bed.  It cannot be the presumption for e-mail.  We have to keep that separate.
And new technologies, as I think Andy Pincus said so well before, don’t change the principles of the law.  They change the fact pattern.  And it’s not just changing our relationship as a U.S. government with other countries, it’s changing the relationship between the government and the self.  And that’s a fight I’m willing to take on and keep fighting.
  And, Bruce, does it impact substantially freedom of the press?
  Well, this is a really important case for freedom of the press.  We joined the brief along with your old pals at ABC, and dozens of news organizations, they’re up on the screen here, authors like Laura Heiman, who is here today, and the case hits on a number of cylinders for us.
One, we see it as a digital analog to the Jim Risen case, which has been fought now for eight years.  The government is in court tomorrow deciding whether or not to call Jim for trial testimony.  And that case has raised public awareness about issue surrounding reporters privilege.  This case is the digital analog to that because we hope that it raises public awareness about issues surrounding the security of everyone’s communications in the cloud, but particularly reporters and news organizations are watching this case and involved in this case because we have stuff governments around the world want.  And this case may not have been about journalism, but the next case will be.
And for us being a part of this case is, therefore, essential to ensuring that whatever gains we as an industry may make if the government backs down from Jim Risen, as it looks like it intends to, whatever extra tweaks we get in media subpoena policy from the Attorney General before he leaves office, we want to make sure all those advances are protected.  And if the government uses this kind of end run in this case involving Microsoft, we have great concerns that the next case involving journalism could see a similar maneuver from the government.
And the second thing I would say is that I think this case is incredibly important for the media and the technology industries in terms of their collaboration with each other.  That the technology companies are so important to journalism today as a platform on the front end to distribute our content, on the backend they’re creating virtual newsrooms for us.  And the fact that the two industries are work together in a case like this I think is incredibly important for the future development of First and Fourth Amendment law.
  And in a case where a reporter, Reporter X, is working for the Minneapolis Star Tribune has got a very important story that involves malfeasance, for instance, let’s say in the Minnesota government.  I don’t mean to pick out Minnesota, but I just take it as an example.
Almost all of the communications now going back to my day would be face-to-face in terms of talking to sources.  But now it’s almost all done by e-mail.
  Right.  The fact that to be a reporter today working sources, not just locally, but internationally, storing e-mail in the cloud, news organizations, I think, in the post-Snowden, post-Risen era are taking every precaution they can in terms of data security protection.  But, for us it’s essential that the gains were able to make Attorney General Lee’s office and it looks like he’s recalibrating in some very important ways that those gains then aren’t lost if the government starts using other tools, other mechanisms that could impact journalism down the road.
  Let me come back to your argument.  I’m hung up in my head about the pictures of the grandchildren.  And I actually don’t even carry any.   But, because I’m not worried about that, because I’m not worried about the humdrum of the daily stuff that I exchange in e-mail, at some point you have to trust.  And in this world that we live, where everything, as I said a moment ago, is out there, it seems to me at some point the government that you elected you have to trust to be judicious in what it will go after.  And given the fact that it is also easily obtainable, hackers get into it all the time; we basically have to put our faith in somebody, don’t we?
  Really?  Listen, I love this country.  I served at the Department of Homeland Security.  In was the first Chief Privacy Officer there.  I believe in what we do to keep this country safe.  I want my children; I want your grandchildren, to be safe, absolutely.  We’ve got great men and women working in law enforcement and national security.  However, they have to ‑‑
  I had a feeling there was going to be a “but” in the sentence.
 There have got to be rules and the rules have got to be followed.  And just because the technology allows us unfettered access into the voluminous amount of data that is out there about people’s daily lives does not mean they should have unfettered access to it.  And this case is part of a larger national conversation.  You were right to bring up Edward Snowden.  We are really looking hard as a country at where the boundary is between our self and the government.  And the presumption in the United States always has been that what is mine is mine until there is a legal predicate for the government to come a calling and asking for it.  And in this case they haven’t proven that they need access to this data.
There has got to be a compelling public policy or legal interest in getting that data and, again, the bulk data collection issues that we’re working on in Washington show that.  The presumption cannot be that everything just goes to the government and then they get to look at it and then they get to figure out what is necessary.  That’s not the America my parents brought me to and that’s not the America I want my children to grow up in.
  Let me come back to the Snowden case, because it’s an interesting one.  Would we be having this discussion today, would this be as much of an issue if Snowden hadn’t told us the way NSA was able basically to get everything in real time, unencrypted?
  I think we actually would.  We’ve been seeing a number of cases come up through the legal system going through Supreme Court:  The case about GPS tracking; the case about search incident to arrest that was discussed in the previous panel.  You’re seeing these cases kind of percolate up through the legal system where the courts are being faced again and again with rules that are made for the physical world and to try and adapt them for the virtual, or digital world.  And so I think we would be having this conversation.  I think what’s unique about the Snowden moment is that public attention is very sensitized to invasions of privacy in a way that it wasn’t prior to Snowden.  And so that adds an extra dimension to the conversation.
  So let me flip the question that I just asked Nuala.  I kept saying at some point we have to trust.  But, basically did Snowden show us that we can’t trust anybody, the government, the large companies who gave them the access, et cetera?
  Can I jump in and say I do trust the Supreme Court after the last few decisions in technology.
  I think Faiza is absolutely right that what this shows, and Snowden certainly catapulted us forward probably about 5 or 10 years in the conversation, but we were going to have the conversation about the increasing use of technology, or increasing connectivity through the digital world.  We were going to have that conversation eventually.  And we’re going to have the conversation about what’s in the private sector and what’s in the government’s hand and whether those are blurring data sets.  But, I do see ‑‑ I have hope.  I am actually one of the most optimistic people in Washington, actually.  I have probably more hope for the courts ‑‑
  That’s one.
 That’s me.  I’m alone in that.  I have a lot of hope, given what we’ve seen out of the Supreme Court in the last few technology cases.  Andy Pincus and the Center for Democracy and Technology, we have all filed amicus briefs in a number of these cases.  And the court has a growing realization that the old rules still apply.  So just because it’s new and different and we can get more data does not mean we need to abandon our fundamental principles of privacy and individual liberty.
  Even though it was Microsoft that called this thing together and even though there are Microsoft people in the room, rank the Microsoft arguments for me.  What is more troubling to you, the fact that the government is going after material in Ireland, or is it the fact that the government maintains that these are business records and not private communications?
  I think the extra-territoriality argument is really troubling.  And one issue we haven’t mentioned here yet today is the right to be forgotten, which the EU imposed on companies like Microsoft, Google, Yahoo!  And just last week they said, it’s not enough that you honor take down requests in the EU, you need to honor them across your whole network.  And so think about that, if we reach into Ireland to grab these e-mails how can we then say that the EU can’t reach into Mountain View and Redmond and tell Microsoft and Google to honor these takedown requests from EU citizens.
And so I do think that the larger question that this case and others addresses about efforts of governments to reach across state borders is one we would be having regardless of Snowden, because I think these kinds of cases would be materializing in the Internet now that we’re 10, 15 years, 20 years into Internet publishing.  These are the kinds of cases that are now materializing.
  Let me ask the same question to you about the two arguments that Microsoft makes?
  I think it depends on what perspective you’re coming from.  But, from the perspective of where I sit I would say two things are the most troubling for me about the government’s case, one which was covered extensively in the first panel, was this idea that e-mails are business records, because, as was explained many times, e-mails are the record of our lives, some would argue more than that.  And the government isn’t just trying to get at e-mails it’s also trying to get at all of the other information that’s stored in this individual’s account.  So that could include your contact list, your photographs, whatever else you’ve loaded into the cloud, which can be a great deal of information.
And I wanted to just mention one thing about your earlier point, right, where you said you weren’t worried about the government coming after your granddaughter’s, or grandson’s photographs.  And I think that’s probably right, but I think we’ve also seen in the past that these kinds of authorities can and have been abused and particularly if you are not right in the mainstream of society and if you are, for example, an activist, or you’re somebody who is organizing protests, there are a lot of incentives for government to come after your information.  If you look at the protests that are breaking out across the country now, the Ferguson, Eric Garner protests, do you think law enforcement doesn’t want to know what’s going on in those protest movements?  Sure they would.  So I think that’s one thing to keep in mind when you talk about very broad government surveillance.
The other point that I wanted to make in terms of what’s most disturbing to me about the arguments that the government is making in this case is the idea that the search and seizure doesn’t occur until somebody in the government, sitting here in the United States, actually looks at the documents.  That has enormous implications.  It’s sort of like saying, well, I can collect the e-mails of everybody in this room, everything in all of our accounts, and until somebody from the FBI takes a look at them I haven’t done anything that relates to the Fourth Amendment.  That’s a sweeping argument and one that really needs to be pushed back.
  But, it’s the argument that distinguishes between a physical piece of paper or some sort of document, something that somebody has to go into Ireland to get as opposed to simply a document, which can travel through the cloud and be on your desk within seconds?
  But, the argument isn’t even so much about where, it’s about when.  So in this case they’ve conflated that the when and the where are the same.  The documents are being retrieved at the point at which they’re being retrieved, not at the point that somebody back in the United States is actually looking at them.
  Although the court said there is no search and seizure overseas.  It occurs here.
  That’s precisely it.
  Building on what Faiza said, I completely agree that the government is torturing the definition of the words collection and search and to collect it and to have access to it means the government could do something where they could process it.  But, I see you struggling with the analogy between paper and digital, which is interesting, because we often in tech use analogues to previous versions of the same content so that people will understand.  I always use party line telephone as an example so people understand what Twitter is, and try to make analogs for other new technologies.
The content is what matters, right?  It’s not the physical form.  Whether it’s on paper or whether it’s in the cloud.  If I’m writing to myself or my child’s teacher or my lawyer, that’s privileged, that’s a communications.  That’s a one-to-one communication.  And just because I’ve used a different technology, I’ve used an e-mail service provider, does not necessarily mean that I have given up my expectation of privacy in the content of that.
  So am I putting words in your mouth that the argument about privacy versus business records is more disturbing to you than location?
  For me that’s profoundly offensive to describe my personal transactions.  And, again, whether it’s in my personal capacity of my work capacity, they are my communications with another.  And simply by virtue of using an e-mail service provider, I do not abdicate my sense of privacy about that.
  OK.  So we did with the last panel, so I make you king for a day.  How do you solve this problem?  Is there a way to solve it?  Is it to be done legislatively, or is it to be done judicially?
  First, I would echo what some of the other panelists have said in that there are actually processes in place.  And for the Justice Department to complain that the MLATs don’t work fast enough, well, I’m not entirely sympathetic to that argument, and they’ve also asked for $24 million in additional funds, which we are very supportive of their getting to strengthen those processes that already exist.
  You going to write the check?
  Personally, yes.  Absolutely.  The first you are all going to donate to CDT, and then ‑‑ how’s that?
  You knew there would be a commercial somewhere.
  CDT.org, get your checks in by the end of the year for tax-deductible purposes, 501(c)(3).
Legislation, sure.  There’s also a role for good companies of all the big brand names that we are aware of and do business with this holiday season to have good rules in place, and to explain to their customers when you’re doing business in this country, you know, your expectation of legal coverage is this.
There are also technological solutions.  You brought up encryption.  I’m a great believer in if technology created this problem, then technology can be part of this solution.  The great minds we have working in engineering, again, in Seattle and Silicon Valley, elsewhere, can come up with solutions that say, I will have an expectation of privacy.  I will know where my data is.  I will be able to follow it.  I will be able to understand as an ordinary customer whose rules apply, who is going to have their hands on it.
But, again, the big picture issue to me here is the data that I do business with in my private capacity, whether it’s as a mom, as a working person, whatever, does not mean that I say it’s OK for the federal government to see whatever it is, whether it’s my social media profile or my personal communications.
  Faiza?
  So I think legislation would be very helpful in solving the U.S. problem.  But I don’t think it’s just a U.S. problem.  It’s not just an American problem, because it is a global problem.  And one of the issues that has come out in this case is the difficulty that an American corporation would have if a government overseas asked for information that’s sitting in the United States.  So you really do need to have some kind of international agreement that takes account of the various national interests that are involved.
So you have the interest of the country that wants the information.  You have the interest of the country where the information is stored.  And you potentially have a third country of interest, which is where the person whose information you’re looking for is from.  So you could have as many as three parties.
And I think at the end of the day, the international community has to come together to figure out how you balance out those interests and what the most efficient way is for making this process work quickly.  We have found ways to do that in the past.  We do it in a number of different areas, banking for example, there’s a lot of work that goes on which is transnational, and this requires a transnational solution.
  So you have hopes that we can agree it’s Monday.
  Afternoon.
 I was going to say, since Nuala and Faiza have talked a lot about the international and global perspective, one thing I would just pitch is that we just keep on working on the DOJ.  And in the year-and-a-half since disclosures came out about the subpoena, the secret subpoena to obtain AP phone records, and then the grab for e-mails at Google owned by a Fox News reporter.  We’ve been talking regularly with the DOJ on these press subpoena and search warrant policies.  As part of the new guidelines that the AG issued in February, he has now established a permanent news media DOJ dialogue group, and we’ve met once with the AG and his top staff.  The lawyers have been continuing to talk throughout the year, and we hope that when there is a new AG in place that there will be a transition and that will continue.
In some ways, that dialogue was modeled after what the Aspen Institute had run for years as a dialogue between press and national security people, and they used to convene annually out in Wye, Maryland.  There has been some talk about doing something like that again.  And I think the table looks different now because it’s got to include technology companies as well.  And I think that that process of having regular contact and dialogue with the DOJ we have found has borne some fruit this year.  And I think that even as we think globally, we are thinking locally down on Pennsylvania Avenue and the DOJ I think makes sense, too.
  All right.  Well, thanks to all three of you.  As I said at the outset, this is an important case.  And that’s why it warrants this kind of discussion.
As Professor Lazowska said, these are just e-mails and servers and age-old privacy questions, but new technologies like the cloud do change the landscape.  Governmental attorneys have their imperatives.  Microsoft and those who are filing amicus briefs today have their imperatives.  I, for one, am awfully glad I’m not a judge and have to parse these competing needs.  But we’ll get a final word now.
Thanks all for coming.
  I’ll close by thanking everybody in the room and thank you to everybody who is watching on the web.
I think that Charlie Gibson actually framed these questions amazingly well.  As you heard, the technology is new, but the principles that are at stake really are not.  And the fundamental question is whether governments or companies, or others will do things simply because they can, or whether we’ll think through the principles that we want to see endure.
And fundamentally there are two very important questions at stake.  Will your e-mails get the same kind of protection as your paper mail or your telephone calls, or what you might put in a safety deposit box in a bank, or even what you might leave in your hotel room while you’re out and about in a city during the day, or will instead that protection be lost.  That is a question of fundamental importance.
The there thing I thought Charlie put amazingly well was this question should we feel comfortable trusting our government.  Well, actually I would say this case is about whether people will have the opportunity to trust their government, because this is about e-mail in Ireland the Irish people don’t get to vote in U.S. elections.  The German people don’t get to vote in U.S. elections.  And if they’re comes a day when the British government, for example, seeks to obtain e-mail that is stored in a data center in the United States we’ll all be reminded that the American people don’t get to vote in British elections either.
So ultimately this case, among many other things, is about whether people will have the right to have their e-mail protected by their own laws and their own governments and their own constitutions.  That’s at stake, too.
As this conversation this morning showed, it’s a big issue.  At times it’s a complicated question.  But, more than anything else, we need not just problems, but we need solutions.  And it’s conversations like this that we hope can move us forward.  As we look to the New Year the case will move forward, but we hope the conversation will broaden and move forward in new ways, as well, not just here in court in New York, but in Congress and in the executive branch in Washington, and in national capitals and in international dialogues across the Atlantic and around the world.  Hopefully today takes us one step farther.
Thank you very much.
One cannot come to Brussels on a day like today to talk about public safety, personal privacy, and the Internet without starting with a reflection on the tragic and even horrific events of recent weeks.  Just as Europeans stood together with Americans in September of 2001, Americans are standing together with the French and all of Europe in January of 2015.  Across the Atlantic people on both continents cherish the freedom of expression that is a hallmark not only of our societies, but of our shared traditions and past.  Yet as we also have seen, without adequate public safety, this right and all of our rights are at risk. 
This makes today’s topic even more complex.  But it also makes it even more important.  More than ever, free societies need to grapple with fundamental values such as public safety and personal privacy.  And the only way to do this is for us to spend the time to talk through these issues together. 
2015 As a Year for Solutions.  We should make no mistake, recent events should leave us all with a heightened sense of urgency:  As a result, 2015 is a year that calls for solutions.   
It’s a year that calls for steps that will adapt laws to the technology that exists today.  It’s a year that calls for measures that will ensure that law enforcement can access the information it needs while people benefit from the privacy they deserve, all pursuant to proper legal process and the rule of law.  It’s a year that calls for governments to respect each other’s borders and national sovereignty, while also enabling governments to work across borders at Internet speed under new international rules.  
All of these opportunities are before us, if people can come to the table and start to work through issues that, while difficult, are definitely surmountable.   
There is no better place to start, especially as we look to the international issues, than by developing new rules that can work across the Atlantic.  Europe and the United States should forge a modern set of trans-Atlantic rules that will enable law enforcement to obtain information needed for lawful investigations across borders, while at the same time sustaining privacy protections for citizens and protecting free expression.   
Before we get to the details, I think it helps to look at the trends of the past few years. 
Since the Snowden disclosures in 2013, the world has rightly focused on revelations about governmental access to personal information.  We’ve all learned more and thought more about when and how we want governments around the world to have access to our emails, our photos, and our text messages.  This quite appropriately has also led to an even broader discussion of how private companies should use consumer information.  As a company we’ve been calling since 2005 for comprehensive privacy legislation in the United States that would cover use of data by companies. 
As 2014 unfolded, the world witnessed growing instability in Syria and Iraq, including the risk that these would lead to terrorist threats elsewhere.  And as the calendar pages recently reached the end of one year and the start of a new one, we saw an unprecedented cyber-attack on Sony and then the tragic attacks in Paris.    
In short, for almost 24 months, events and issues that touch safety, privacy, and the Internet have been moving forward at an accelerating pace.   
Yet another facet is equally clear.  While legislative debates in Europe and the United States have increasingly focused on these issues, legislation itself has not matched the pace of technological change.   
To the contrary, for the most part the law has stood still.   
This is the case even though most of the laws on the books literally harken from a different technological age.  Here in Europe the data protection directive was written mostly in the early 1990s, when I spent seven years living and working here and using a PC that didn’t have a mouse and a cell phone that couldn’t be detached from my car.  In the United States the Electronic Communications Privacy Act is even older, having been adopted in 1986.  And while these are not the only two important laws on the books, most of the laws that are relevant to technology all share one common feature – if they were technology products, they would be in a museum.   
As we begin a new year, it’s time to recognize the obvious.  Antiquated laws will neither keep the public safe nor privacy strong.  They simply cannot, because they did not anticipate the world in which we now live. 
So while on the one hand there is growing discussion of the tension between safety and privacy, we should recognize that new steps also create an opportunity to better address both of these important societal needs.   
As we consider this type of opportunity, it’s worth reflecting on the insights gained in just the past two months. 
The Events of Recent Weeks and the Internet Paradox.  Some of us at Microsoft found ourselves spending time the week before Christmas focused on whether the company would make Sony’s film, “The Interview”, available online.  We knew that such a step would increase our own risk profile as a target for cyber-attacks.  It created a hard problem, but ultimately it was not a difficult decision.  Our CEO, Satya Nadella, asked engineers to spend the days before Christmas taking additional steps to prepare for such an assault.  So on Christmas Eve we joined Sony and Google in announcing that we would make the film available; in our case, it was on our Xbox Live service.  As we concluded, a cyberattack on anyone’s rights is a cyber-attack on everyone’s rights, and the best way to deter such attacks in the future is to stand together to defend against them in the present.   
In focusing on this challenge, one of the paradoxes of the Internet today became apparent.  In targeting Sony, hackers used technology as a weapon to attack freedom of expression.  In making Sony’s film available online, Google and Microsoft used technology as a tool to defend it. 
In more recent weeks this same paradox has manifested itself in ways that are even more urgent.  As the world has witnessed in Paris, terrorists use technology to recruit participants, plan attacks, and proclaim credit afterwards.  Law enforcement uses technology to investigate crimes – to obtain 
information and analyze it to disrupt attacks before they occur.  And the people of France used social media to help organize what became on the avenues of Paris the largest demonstration supporting free expression in French history. 
More broadly, the Internet has become the world’s principal medium for people to share ideas and communicate with each other.  Like the telegraph, the telephone, and other inventions before it, people today put the Internet to use in a variety of ways – to do good and, at times, to inflict harm.  This in effect defines the paradox of the Internet today.  Technology is a tool.  The Internet is a tool.  And the good and bad uses to which this tool can be applied are limited only by people’s imagination.  This is true at an individual level.  It’s true at an organizational level.  And it’s true of governments and nationstates. 
In short, the Internet has become the new terrain on which ideas are shared and deeds are shaped.  It exists not in some sphere that is separate from the real world.  Rather real people use it to advance ideas and actions that impact the real world. 
The Internet and the Rule of Law.  More than ever, this makes one thing abundantly clear:  the Internet needs to be governed by the rule of law.   
This is not a conclusion that has always been popular on the west coast of the United States or among tech companies.  Yet the time has come to recognize how much things have changed.   
If we’re going to protect people’s rights in the real world, we need to protect their rights on the Internet.  If we’re going to keep people safe in the real world, we need to keep them safe on the Internet.  And while technology has a critical role itself in protecting people’s rights and keeping people safe, technology and the Internet itself needs to be governed by law.   
In other words, while the Internet must at its core remain a borderless and open and free medium, there are a certain areas where laws need to govern the real world effects of both public and private activities on the Internet. It’s important to talk about what this means. 
First, as we talk about our relationship across the Atlantic, this means that democratic societies, not private companies, need to decide on the balances to be struck between public values such as public safety and personal privacy.  A principal challenge is that both of these goals are of huge importance in a free society.  It is the type of challenge that elected representatives are uniquely positioned to address.   
Especially when officials sometimes suggest that technology companies should go beyond the law and turn over to law enforcement additional information that will protect safety but compromise privacy, I think about the fact that no one elected us.  If those in government want to shift the line between safety and privacy, the appropriate path is to do so by changing the law rather than asking those of us in the private sector to shift this balance by ourselves. 
But it’s not enough just to say that these decisions about the Internet should be made by governments.  It’s important to talk about how governments across the Atlantic can pursue a path to address the Internet in a way that grounds governmental action in fundamental principles around issues of privacy and free expression. 
The Role of Transparency.  First, reflecting our democratic traditions and principles, governments need to act with transparency.  Legislatures need to pass laws, the executive branch needs to execute laws, 
and courts need to enforce laws with a level of transparency that will ensure that the public is aware of what their government is doing.  Some of the concerns highlighted by the Snowden disclosures go to the level of transparency in governmental actions in the United States.  It wasn’t always sufficiently clear to the public what the executive branch was doing.  This was compounded by the degree to which the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court was deciding upon important interpretations of the law outside of public view.  One lesson is that it’s not possible to uphold democratic principles without a level of transparency that ensures the public knows what its government is doing. 
This lesson is applicable not just to governments but to technology companies as well.  The past two years have provided all of us with a powerful reminder.  People will not use technology they do not trust.  And they cannot trust technology they do not understand.  Our ability to innovate therefore depends on maintaining a greater level of transparency.  That’s one of the reasons Microsoft, Google, and others sued the U.S. Government, insisting upon our right under the First Amendment of the Constitution to share more information with the public about the national security orders we receive.  And it’s why one sees so many more transparency reports published across our industry.  This is a good thing, and it underscores the need for those of us in the tech sector to do more to document our own practices on how we use data. 
Protecting Fundamental Freedoms.  Second, those of us in the technology sector believe that governments should regulate the Internet in ways that preserve the fundamental freedoms that our customers – citizens – have long come to expect.   
It’s worth starting with the protection of privacy.  The governments of the world recognized in the 1948 United Nations Declaration that privacy is a fundamental human right.  The Council of Europe incorporated this tenet into its 1950 Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms.  And it has remained an important part of European law ever since, including being embodied in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. 
Yet while the Internet has done so much to advance so many aspects of human progress, it has not always been so good for privacy.  This week in Davos we’ll talk more about the results of Microsoft’s second annual worldwide poll on people’s views of how personal technology is changing their lives.  While people worldwide are positive about so many aspects of the Internet, 64 percent of people in developed countries believe that the Internet’s impact on personal privacy has been mostly negative, an increase of 5 points compared to last year.  And people are not prepared to sit back and simply watch this negative impact unfold.  As the poll shows, 71 percent of people in these countries believe that current legal protections are insufficient, and 66 percent believe that the police should need a warrant or its equivalent to obtain personal information stored on a PC.  Over 70 percent believe their information stored in the cloud deserves the same protection as physical files.  
This all makes good sense to us.  Even in this new era, if you're a consumer or you're a company, we believe that you own your e-mail, your text messages, your photos and all the content that you create.  Even when you put your content in our data centers or on devices that we make, you still own it.  The information you store in the cloud is entitled to the same legal protection as the information you put on paper.  This means that personal information and data should not be accessed or seized without proper legal process.  And this means that governments should not access the content of your private communications without probable cause – a belief that an individual is engaged in the pursuit of a crime. 
Similarly, we need to continue to preserve the Internet’s fundamental ability to promote education and learning and the sharing of information and ideas.  While there have always been legal limits on free expression under national laws, those limits in democratic societies have typically been around the edges.  The core of free expression has been to ensure that people can share ideas, even unpopular ideas, with each other.  And we need to sustain this important democratic value. 
Finally, as recent events have tragically made all too clear, public safety is also a paramount public need and government responsibility.  Recent events have been a powerful reminder of the vital role that governments play in keeping communities safe.  This means that governments have a clear need to access digital information to investigate terrorist threats and bring criminals to justice.  We’re committed to playing our part.  When governments need access to Microsoft customer data for law enforcement or national security purposes, we work hard to quickly and appropriately respond to the legal orders served on us so that governments can get the information they need.    
Yet the only way to keep the public safe, privacy secure, and free expression healthy is to ensure that all three of these values are reflected in the laws that governments write.   
The Importance of Accountability.  Third, as governments act to regulate the Internet, they need to do so with proper accountability.  Just as technology companies need to be accountable under the law to regulators and courts, the executive branch needs to be accountable to the legislative and especially the judicial branches of governments.  Balanced laws and proper judicial review need not keep law enforcement agencies from doing their job quickly.  But they do need to ensure that the executive branch does its job well and with proper regard for legal process and people’s rights.  This is why we’ve advocated for reform of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court in the United States.  And it’s why this value needs to be preserved more broadly across free societies. 
Issues That Cross Borders and Respect for National Sovereignty.  As we look to the year ahead, we have the opportunity to address public safety, personal privacy, and free expression not just within countries, but across borders as well.  Indeed, if each country acts on its own without regard for how its laws impact borderless technology, the resulting patchwork will not serve safety, privacy, or economic advancement. As we’ve seen all too clearly even in recent weeks, there are times when law enforcement authorities need to access data stored in other countries.  But we do not believe that the answer is to ignore national sovereignty or trample upon it.  Governments need to respect each other’s borders.  The key instead is to strengthen the ability of governments to act pursuant to the rule of law by modernizing international law to keep pace with technology and new challenges. 
The good news is that we’re not working without a current legal foundation, even if it does need to be modernized.  This is important for us to keep in mind, and it’s a point that we’ve made repeatedly in our litigation against the U.S. Government in federal court in New York.  We have contested a U.S. search warrant issued upon Microsoft to obtain customer emails stored in our data center in Ireland.  One point we’ve made is that the United States has an existing Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty, or MLAT, with the Government of Ireland, and the two governments frequently cooperate closely.  Indeed, in its amicus brief filed in that case, the Government of Ireland indicated it was prepared to respond expeditiously to a request for the content made pursuant to that MLAT.  International cooperation, rather than unilateral intervention across borders, should be the first step that governments take when they want data that is stored somewhere else.  And if existing mechanisms are inadequate, they should be improved, not ignored or simply jettisoned.   
Indeed, we’ve seen this type of international cooperation at work in recent weeks.  Just two weeks ago, the French Government sought the content of emails from two customer accounts held by Microsoft when it was in the midst of pursuing the Charlie Hebdo suspects.  Rather than come to Microsoft directly in the United States, the French authorities contacted the FBI in the United States and the FBI served upon us an emergency request under a provision of the Electronic Communications Privacy Act.  Despite the fact that this letter arrived electronically at 5:47 in the morning on the west coast of the United States, we were able to assess its validity under U.S. law, conclude that it was proper, pull the email content in question, and deliver it to the FBI in New York, all in exactly 45 minutes.  In short, there are times, especially in emergency situations, when existing international legal processes work well.  And they need to work well. 
What we need, however, is new solutions that will enable the rule of law, like the Internet itself, to work well more routinely across national borders.  Because while current processes sometimes work, we need to make them work better.  There are two sets of steps that can be taken, and should work to take both of them this year. 
Modernizing MLATs.  First, we need governments to bring Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty processes into the Internet age.  And there are at least two important improvements that should be relatively easy to make. 
First, we should move MLATs from the age of paper and wax seals to an era of electronic communication.  There is every reason for international law enforcement cooperation to move more routinely at Internet speed, as we saw the French and American authorities achieve recently.  What we need are new legal processes that will enable the use of digital communications, much as we have for digital signatures for what used to be paper-based contracts. 
Second, governments should standardize the terms and forms used in MLAT processes.  This would enable both governments and tech companies to undertake faster legal reviews without sacrificing personal privacy.  Instead of having to assess different legal terms and forms from different countries, it we could master a more concise and better standardized legal process. 
In short, as this illustrates, it is possible to take steps that will better protect public safety while preserving privacy rights and respect for national sovereignty. 
Towards a Bigger Step across the Atlantic.  But we should not stop there.  Given the importance of public safety and personal privacy, Europe and the United States should forge new trans-Atlantic legal rules that will better enable law enforcement, with appropriate safeguards, to obtain information needed for lawful investigations across borders.  As I said before, there is important existing work that we can build upon.  New legal rules should build on past and current examples of U.S.-European cooperation, including the Council of Europe Convention on Cybercrime and the EU-U.S. Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty.  Critically, it should be built on five important principles: 
(1) Direct Legal Service on Data Center Operators.  First, new legal rules should enable the authorities in proper circumstances in one country to serve a new and proper order on a data center operator in another, but pursuant to legal rules that ensure respect for people’s rights.  These rules should require that the government issuing the order simultaneously notify the government in the country of residence of the service provider or the user, so it is aware of the law enforcement activity 
that in effect is taking place within its borders or impacting one of its citizens.  And it should enable either the data center operator or the receiving government to object if the order is improper. 
(2) Nexus with Country Issuing the Order.  Second, there should be a proper nexus between the country issuing the order and the individual whose content is being sought, and this new legal authority to obtain cloud content should be limited to specific and agreed upon criminal offenses.  For physical evidence, the general rule is that the country where the evidence is located is the one with the right to obtain it, as seizing evidence is the exercise of a police power.  But an agreement governing cloud content might extend this rule or focus instead on reaching the content of citizens and residents of a country, even when the content is stored in another nation.  In other words, if the content of a U.S. resident is stored in Ireland, the U.S. Government could use this new legal instrument to serve a warrant directly on a data center located there.  And if a French resident’s content is stored in the U.S., the French Government could similarly make use of this rule to seek the content directly from a data center in the United States.   
(3) Clear Standard for Issuance of an Order.  Third, in order to ensure that citizens’ privacy rights are respected, there should be a required minimum showing that the investigating authority must make to obtain an order requiring disclosure of content.  While countries have somewhat differing legal traditions, the countries across the Atlantic share a general approach that focuses law enforcement authority on individuals who are suspected of engaging in criminal conduct.  In the U.S., to obtain users’ content, the law focuses on requiring “probable cause” to believe an individual has committed or possesses evidence of a specific crime.  It is important to develop a minimum legal standard with which people can feel comfortable on both sides of the Atlantic. 
(4) Transparency, Oversight, and Accountability.  Fourth, there should be a robust system in place to ensure there is adequate oversight of governments’ use of these authorities, including accountability for any misuse.  Companies should have the right to publish regular and appropriate transparency reports that document the number of such orders they are receiving, the number of customer accounts that are affected, and the governments that are issuing these orders.   
Orders for the most sensitive data such as email content should be issued only by a court or similar independent authority in the requesting country.  An order to turn over information constitutes an infringement of privacy.  It’s therefore appropriate that in almost all circumstances, this fundamental right should be infringed only via an independent judgment, such a magistrate or neutral authority, that the need for the information justifies it based on the facts known at the time.    
(5) Respect for Human Rights.  Finally, while an agreement between Europe and the U.S. does not raise significant human rights concerns, other countries may seek to join such an accord if it proves successful.  Countries should only be allowed to accede to any agreement if they meet and maintain an adequate human rights record.  
In conclusion, a New Year that has highlighted the challenges of a new technology era needs to become a New Year in which we focus on new solutions.  It needs to become a year in which we make more progress modernizing the laws of the past.  It needs to become a year that recognizes that national laws should stop at the water’s edge, but the rule of law needs to cross borders.  It needs to become a year in which we recognize that, while there are tensions between safety and privacy, there are also new opportunities 
for these fundamental values to move forward together.  The key is to recognize that we not only have shared values but shared legal processes that can span the Atlantic.  And a new legal bridge across the Atlantic can make all of this stronger.  
  Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome Terry Myerson.
  Thank you.  Hello, everyone.  It’s great to be back together to talk about the next generation of Windows, Windows 10.  It’s great to see some familiar faces, some new faces, and welcome the many, many more that are joining via webcast today, particularly our Windows Insiders.
This is the second of several Windows 10 conversations we’re planning to have with you, and we’ve got a lot to share over the next two hours.  I’m hoping to cover three things.  The first: how the feedback we’ve received since introducing Windows 10 is truly helping shape the future of Windows 10.  And then, we will share the most comprehensive view yet of new experiences coming to Windows 10.  You’ll see Cortana like never before.  You’ll see entirely new ways of being productive and having fun.  And you’ll see some amazing new devices enabled by Windows 10.  And then Satya will join us to discuss Windows and its importance to Microsoft.
Now, we introduced Windows 10 last September.  Let me recap the key points from that discussion.  First and foremost, Windows 10 will provide a seamless transition for our Windows 7 and Windows 8 customers, including the familiar desktop and Start menu.  And Windows 10 will be our best enterprise platform ever, enabling our enterprise customers to be more productive than ever before, simplifying management and deployment for IT, and working seamlessly with existing enterprise apps.  But most importantly, Windows 10 will protect corporate data better than ever.  In fact, the hardware-based security of Windows 10 would have countered the techniques used in several of the recent headline-making attacks.
And Windows 10 will support the broadest device family ever.  Of course it will work great on the laptop and the desktop, the most productive devices on the planet, with keyboard, mouse and touch.  Our hardware partners are doing amazing work in this area, introducing several new designs at CES, thinner and lighter with amazing screens.
The Windows 10 Continuum experience enabled these incredible two-in-one devices that switch back and forth between the keyboard and mouse mode and the touch tablet mode.  Windows 10 on tablets, phablets and phones will provide the best mobile experience for our Windows and Xbox users.  With Windows 10, universal Windows apps come to Xbox One, the most fun game console ever.
And Windows 10 has support for today’s Maker boards, enabling Makers to do incredible things with Windows in the fast-growing Internet of Things space.  Windows 10 is the only platform that enables innovation across this broad family of devices.  Developers can target all of these device types with one platform and one store.  And stay tuned until later today as our device family expands.
Now, since September we have received a lot of feedback from customers, partners and press.  But the most important feedback has come from our Windows Insider program.  We’re humbled that 1.7 million have signed up to shape Windows 10 with us.  They’ve installed Windows 10 over three million times on a broad spectrum of PCs.  This is a testament, I think, to not only the quality of Windows 10 this early, but the commitment these Insiders are showing to the program.
Collectively these Insiders have shared with us over 800,000 pieces of feedback on over 200,000 topics.  And our team is really embracing this feedback and leaning in to this new open development process.  And I wanted to let you hear directly from the engineers on the team.
Your feedback and your time are really helping to shape the future of Windows.  And if you have not joined, now is the time.  Please go to Windows.com and sign up for free.
So now I want to take you back to when we were envisioning Windows 10.  Windows has always been grounded in the idea that technology should help individuals and organizations do great things.  At that time we identified three areas that were ripe for innovation and improving our customers’ lives.
We think of these areas, three areas, as moving Windows from our heritage of enabling a single device to what we’re calling more personal computing.  The first of these areas was mobility of experience.  The number of smart devices that families, ourselves, or in the workplace is just exploding all around us.  It should be easy to put one device down and pick another up, pick another and continue where you left off.  The technology needs to get out of the way and provide mobility of the experience.
The second area was trust.  In our connected world we know that people care about their privacy.  And so do we.  So everything we do puts the customer in control, because you are our customer, not our product.
And the third, natural interactions, interacting with technology should be as natural as interacting with people, voice, pen, gestures, and your gaze should help you get more out of your devices in an additive and intuitive way, the right interaction in the right way at the right time.
So I want to share with you two cinemagraphs we created back then during the earliest days of Windows 10.  Before we wrote a line of code we wanted the team to be visualizing the world in which Windows 10 would live, and how Windows 10 would add value for our customers.  These cinemagraphs inspired us and got us dreaming about more personal computing.
First, we envisioned the workplace.  There’s that explosion of devices, many running Windows, some not.  And while these individual devices offer value they struggle to work well together.  The apps are different.  The content is hard to move around between my devices and not only my devices, but those of my colleagues and the company.  Every meeting starts with a dance about how to project, or ends with a discussion about how do we get meeting notes out, or the white board out to everyone involved.  The mobility of the experience just isn’t there.
You should be able to print with a flick, or transfer a Skype call with a simple, natural and intuitive gesture.  And businesses need to trust that their corporate data is protected and managed as it moves between all of these devices.  We were inspired to bring more personal computing to the workplace.
And then at home we had that same explosion of smart devices, PCs, phones, tablets, game consoles, smart appliances, and innovative new devices like wearables.  Whether doing homework or playing a great game, the opportunity is there to make an experience that is more mobile across the devices.  We see a world where you can share that experience across all the devices using ink, voice, gestures, and gaze, making technology really come to life.  And with devices being brought home from work and younger and younger kids having their own devices, it’s important that our customers’ privacy is respected and they trust the devices and the experience.
We were inspired to bring more personal computing to the home and the workplace to enable our customers to do great things.  Now to do this we need our work in the hands of our customers — but not just our work, but the great work being done by Windows developers.  We all know that developers are always looking for their next customer, their next million customers.  And we’re going to help them find their next billion customers with Windows 10.
Now today Windows customers are spread across many versions.  This fragmentation makes it challenging for developers to delight our customers with applications.  So we have been investing heavily and making our upgrades as seamlessly as possible for our customers to create a large up-to-date customer base for developers.  We have helped almost 200 million consumers upgrade seamlessly to the latest update of Windows 8.1.  And we have helped over 650 million consumers upgrade seamlessly from Windows 7 to Windows 7 SP1.  For each of those customers, the security of their system improves.  They receive new capabilities and features, making them more productive, enabling them to play new games, enabling them to do more.
But the engineering work to enable a seamless upgrade is only the first part.  So I’m very excited to announce that for the first year after Windows 10 is available we will be making available a free upgrade to Windows 10 to all devices running Windows 8.1.  And we will also be making available a free upgrade to Windows 10 to all devices running Windows Phone 8.1.  And last but not least, for the first year after Windows 10 is available we will be making available a free upgrade to all of our customers still running Windows 7.  
Now this is so much more, though, than a free one-time upgrade.  Once a device is upgraded to Windows 10 we will be keeping it current for the supported lifetime of the device, keeping it secure, introducing new features and functionality to our customers over time.  In fact, with Windows 10 we think of Windows as a service.  In the next couple of years one could reasonably think of Windows as one of the largest Internet services on the planet.  And just like other Internet services, the question what version are you running will cease to make sense.
This is great for our Windows developers.  Not only can they target all device types with one application, PCs, phones, tablets, Xbox, the Internet of Things, but now they can target every single Windows device.  Windows as a service makes Windows 10 the most attractive Windows development platform ever.
And what about the enterprise?  We will continue to support the way Windows works today with long-term branches and long-term support.  However, the best practice for most enterprises and certainly all daily productivity devices that our customers use will be to directly connect those devices to Windows updates.  So those devices receive the best security and the best productivity functionality over time as soon as they are available.
When you take back and consider the implications of Windows as a service, today really is a monumental day for Windows.  Windows as a service is great for consumers.  It’s great for developers.  And it’s great for the security of our enterprise customers.  Windows 10 is so much more than the latest version of Windows.  Windows 10 changes the rules of the game and redefines the relationship between us and our customers.
So by now I’m sure you want to see Windows 10 devices and experiences in action, so I’m going to invite up four of our leaders to show you more of Windows 10.  First, Joe Belfiore will join us to show you the most productive Windows 10 experiences ever on PCs, two-in-ones, and tablets, and for the first time Windows 10 on a phone.  Then Phil Spencer will join us to discuss gaming on Windows 10.  And then Hayete Gallot and Alex Kipman will join us to discuss two entirely new Windows experiences.
So please join me in welcoming Joe B.
  Good morning.  Hi there.  I’m Joe Belfiore, and I manage a part of Terry’s team that’s focused on PCs, tablets and phones.  And I’m excited to be here today with all of you to give you a first look at Windows 10 and how we’ve updated across that wide range of devices.
He kind of gave an intro already, so are you all ready?  Would you like to see a demo?  Yes, demo.  Yes, all right.
Let’s come right over here, and the first thing I want to do is recap some of the work that we’ve done on the core experience in the PC since we first announced Windows 10 back in September and started up our Insider program.  So you can see here I’ve got my demo machine set up.
The task bar is a little more streamlined here.  We have our search box that we added as we were going along the Insider program.  I’ll open up the start menu, you’ll see the visuals have evolved a little bit there.  And one of the features that people have asked about a lot we now have in our build, and that’s the ability to take the start menu full screen.  So all those people with touch devices, or that are comfortable with and like the Windows 8 style of UI for the start menu, now have a customization option that lets them us the PC the way they would like.  And, of course, I can go right back here and put it back to its small mode, which is familiar to those people coming from Windows 7.
Now another of the areas that our insiders asked about and that there were a bunch of questions around was how are we going to deal with the touch gestures, and how is the charms bar going to evolve?  And I want to show you here when I pan in from the right we now bring up our updated action center.  And the action center is the place where you can do quick actions, like down here on the bottom I can expand these quick action buttons, and you’ll see I have things like a fast way to turn on or off airplane mode.  Up above we have notifications, and these are coming from all the apps that you have installed on your system.
And one of the cool new things in this build, I can expand these notifications here, and you’ll see that applications can add in things like buttons or images or edit controls.  So as notifications appear, you can interact directly with the app in a way that the software developer designs upfront.
Now one last thing I want to show here in this sort of core experience evolution is how we’re evolving our settings experience.  So I’m going to go right here and touch all settings.  We’ve heard our Insiders say that they’d like us to fix up the confusion between the control panel and the settings in Windows 8.  So we’re going to bring those things together in one UI that will be familiar to people coming from Windows 7 and handy for people used to Windows 8.  So that’s sort of the core shell.
The other thing that we really talked about in September that’s very important to Windows 10 is the Continuum feature.  And Continuum is about enabling a two-in-one device like this, which I’ve been using like a laptop, to transform elegantly into sort of a tablet form factor.
So let me restore some windows here.  You’ll see I’ve got a bunch of windows open in various positions on the screen.  I can move those around using my mouse and keyboard.  But when I remove the mouse and keyboard, you’ll see we get a little popup here: Do you want to enter tablet mode?  I’ll choose that, and now my windows are full screen.  And I can use this in a very natural way like a tablet.  I can left swipe in to get task switching, and then switch between full screen apps.  If I touch the start button there, you’ll see it’s now automatically the full screen start menu, which I can use touch gestures to navigate around.
And then, when I’m done using it like a tablet, I snap the keyboard back in.  I get a prompt.  I can exit tablet mode, and now I’m right back to where I was, able to use it like a PC with windows that are restored, the start menu back in its small size, and the whole point is a device like this elegantly transforms from one mode to another.  And it’s happening in a natural way without the UI being something that’s confusing to people.
And one of the things that we haven’t really spent a lot of time showing is how that Continuum experience enables great new PC form factors to feel really natural, like this eight-inch tablet.  So here on the eight-inch tablet, which is running that same version of Windows, I’m going to use it like a tablet in this normal way.  I can do those same edge swipes you saw.  I can use my finger to do things like close apps.  So I’ll pull that app down to close it.
And one of the things that Insiders have asked about, is this going to work with Win32 apps the same way?  Well, absolutely.  I can deal with all my apps, whether they’re written to the modern platform or the Win32 platform, in a consistent way and use this device like a tablet.
Now the other thing that I can do here, I can switch between apps, I’ll pan in from the left.  I’ll go to my sports app.  But this tablet device, of course, is running all the capable features of Windows, is a highly powerful kind of thing.  I can use touch gestures to move an app over here to the side, and I’m going to do some sports and health and fitness at the same time.  I can tile these apps, and I can use touch to move the midpoint.
And then, of course, because this is running a full version of Windows, it’s a full PC, if I exit that tablet mode, I’ve got regular Windows with my full taskbar right down here on the bottom, entirely familiar to anyone using a full PC.  And you can imagine a small device like this getting docked to a keyboard and mouse and a large screen.  And for someone who is a mobile task worker, it works like a tablet while you’re out and about, and then it works exactly like a PC when you bring it back and dock it.
Thank you, Holly.
So that gives you a sense of how the work that we talked about back in September in these core features has evolved since we’ve done those builds, and how that core experience of Windows really elegantly enables a wide range of device form factors to work naturally the way people will expect in a UI that’s familiar to whichever mode of the device they’re in.
So enough of the part where I want to recap stuff that we’ve already talked about; from here on out it’s all new.  And before I jump into some new demos, I want to point out to all of you in the room and to our Insiders on screen, I’m going to be showing you builds that are not finished.  And so there’s a bit of risk in this demo.  And in interest of having our Insiders and all of you with us throughout the development process, we’re going to see some glitches.  But it’s our psychology now to involve people in that development process, and I know you’re all curious to see.
So these features will be coming.  I’m going to show you a range of features.  They’ll be coming over the next three, four, five months at varied points of time in our Insider build, and you’re going to get to see where they’re at today.
So for the first new feature I’m going to show, I need a little help.  I know she’s here somewhere, luckily I can simply summon to the stage, hey, Cortana.
  Hey, Joe.
  What have you been up to lately?
  Well, this morning I set a reminder for you.
  Lovely, you, too.  It seems like everyone is in on that.  Anything that doesn’t involve my hair?
  I correctly predicted most of the World Cup games.
  Yes, we know.  You’re very smart.  You have the Bing engine scouring the Internet and learning everything about everything.  You can make predictions.  If you really want to show off, though, who is your pick for the Super Bowl?
  For you, Joe, ‘hawks by 78 and a half.
  Exactly.  You know, I heard you’ve been telling people other people something different than that.  I guess this proves you really are a personal digital assistant just for me.
I know you’ve been really busy.  You’ve been getting yourself landed on the Microsoft Band.  You’ve been traveling to lots of new places.  How do you like meeting people in all these other countries?
  I love it.  It’s fantastic, fantastique, fantastico.
  Very nice.  I imagine those phrases are coming in handy in all these countries that you’re now in.  I understand you’ve learned a few languages, too.
  Seven, actually.  But my favorite is impersonations.  When 900 years old you reach, look as good you will not.
  I expect not.  It sounds like you’ve been practicing that one a little bit.  Any other big news?
  Do you mean like?
  Hey, that’s not news yet.
  Just so you know, I didn’t say anything.
  Yes, I wasn’t suspecting you.  You didn’t need to with all these folks on the job.
  So it’s official?
  Let’s you and I make it official right now.  Cortana, we’re excited to welcome you to the PC.
All right.  So would you folks like to see how we’re going to change the PC user experience by adding in a new natural interaction with Cortana running on real builds?  Yes, you’re all busy typing.  OK.
Let’s switch over here to a demo machine, and I’m going to show you Cortana running on the PC.  And I want you to keep in mind, early builds, early builds.  Now you’ll notice here, in the builds that we’re working on that our Insiders will get a chance to try, down here on the taskbar you’ll see Cortana has a home.  And that’s because you could go there to click and type, but it’s also a place where Cortana will occasionally pop up notifications and useful information, because after all she’s personal and she knows things about you and she’s there to be helpful.
Now, remember Terry mentioned we’re really trying to develop the natural interaction for all these devices.  So of course we can talk to Cortana, too.
Hey, Cortana, how does it feel to be on a PC?
  Feeling groovy.
  I’m glad you are, Cortana.
And you all probably are aware that Cortana lives in the cloud.  She’s been on Windows Phone for a while, and there’s lots of things she can do that are helpful in terms of just answering quick questions.
Hey, Cortana, will I need a coat tomorrow?
  You could probably go without one.  The forecast for tomorrow shows rains with a high of 50 and a low of 48.
  Exactly.  And as an entity that’s built in the cloud, based on Bing, and learning all these things about the Internet, Cortana keeps getting smarter and smarter over time on whatever device she’s on.  So she’s learned lots of interesting facts that you can now ask questions about.  Here’s one with a little bit of local relevance.
Hey, Cortana, how much will it cost to attend the University of Washington?
  $12,394 U.S. dollars in 2015.
  Exactly.
So a lot of you are already familiar with Cortana and one of the key premises of Cortana is that she is a personal digital assistant who gets to know things about you as you use your PC, or your phone, whatever device you’re using.  And one of the important characteristics for us in designing this Cortana experience was to make sure that she felt like a trusted assistant and that anything she knew about you was transparent and available for you to manage.  And Cortana is even aware of that fact herself.
Hey, Cortana, what do you know about me?
  Well, I have my notebook, so I know what you know you let me know, you know?
  Yes, exactly.  She knows what I’ve let her know about me.  And at any time people can go into the notebook to see what Cortana knows about them.  So here’s my notebook and you see I like getting a daily glance at my routine each morning.  I track some stocks.  I care about lots of sports news, and so on, and so on, and so on.  And any time I can add new interests to Cortana’s notebook manually if I’d like, I can remove things from here if she’s learned them incorrectly, or if I simply don’t want her to know those things.  And those interests make her smarter not just when she answers those questions, but also when she pops up information, and whenever you click here to engage with Cortana, the Cortana home page shows up and you’ll see helpful things that she’s providing to you proactively.
You can see here she’s tracking a flight that my wife is going to be on tonight.  Here’s some stock information, sports news, obviously I’m interested in news about the Super Bowl and so on, and so on, and so on.  So that’s Cortana’s home page experience right there and that’s available whenever I click to type.
I know a lot of you have tried Cortana on the phone and when we brought Cortana to the PC we didn’t want to just take only the phone experience and put it on the PC, we wanted to educate Cortana about PC kinds of things, so that she would be uniquely useful on the PC device.  So there’s lots of things that we’re teaching her to be able to do that are helpful on the PC.
Hey, Cortana, show me PowerPoint slides about the charity auction.
There we go.  Cortana ‑‑ part of the Cortana experience is a search capability that can look on your local hard drive, in your OneDrive, and even on your OneDrive for Business to aggregate together documents that you might want to be able to find through natural queries, whether you’re speaking them or typing them.  And that’s interesting for business use cases, but it’s interesting sort of for personal use cases, too.
Hey, Cortana, show me photos from December.
She understands all these data types and like I said, she’s looking at lots of different locations to pull that data together for you in a really natural way.  Another thing that we tried to do was to make sure that Cortana, everything I’ve done so far has been via speech.  But, we know that lots of users, particularly a lot of Windows 7 users, are accustomed to typing today a limited range of commands into their PC.  But, now Cortana provides a very rich capability for typing commands into your PC.  And we needed to tune this so this would work correctly for the muscle memory of all those Windows 7 users out there.
So I can type any of those queries I talked about so far, but also when I do things like type in the name of an app, Cortana is smart enough to filter her ‑‑ the choices that she can do for you as you’re typing and then give you the most likely thing that you would want at the press of a return.  So here I’ve typed in part of the word Skype.  Cortana recognizes I probably want to launch the Skype app on my PC.  But, you’ll see here, as well, she understands all the apps in the store.  So this is way for her to help you find new useful functionality, which are apps in the store.
She provides me a quick link to a website.  I can jump to Skype.com, and a bunch of candidate Web searches that I might do to get helpful information about Skype.  Sometimes you’ll see settings in there.  It’s a wide range of things that are all tuned for the PC use case and you all can try that out when you get a chance to play around with the build.
Now, another thing that we wanted to do is to think about the PC sort of as an object in a home or an office.  And suddenly having Cortana on your PC is almost like having another member of the family sitting around able to help you get things done.  At my house we have an all-in-one PC on a desk that’s kind of at the corner of the kitchen and the family room.  And with Cortana now it’s like there’s someone there who I can ask to do things without changing where I am in the kitchen or the family room.
Hey, Cortana, play my music.
  Queuing up your music.
  You can imagine the family dynamic now when you’ve got this extra member of the family right there ready to tell you facts about the world, or play your music, or get things done.  Luckily you can say things like, hey Cortana, please be quiet.
  Pausing.
  I can imagine the change in family dynamics as everybody is asking the PC to do various things in terms of their music and so on.  And I’ve got one last thing I want to show you with Cortana on the PC.  And that is I want you to think about how having a speech interaction model that’s rich and complete and natural, in a way that we think people will really use the PC changes your ability to multitask and be effective and get things done.  So I want you to imagine, imagine I’m a financial analyst, or an accountant, and I’m working in a giant spreadsheet, and I’m one of these people, I’ve got like three screens filled with Excel cells.  And I’m doing my formulas, I’m busy at work, then it occurs to me, oh, I wanted to get a reminder, I wanted to send somebody an email.  Well, now I have a personal assistant right there with me whenever I’m using the PC, I can ask her to do things on my behalf.
So here I am in my spreadsheet.  I want to remember to send an email.  I can just say hey, Cortana, send an email to Terry Myerson.
  What is your email about?
  A very big moment.
  What do you want to say?
  This is Cortana’s first email from a PC, comma, congratulations, exclamation point.
  Email Terry Myerson about a very big moment saying this is Cortana’s first email from a PC, congratulations.  Send it, add more, or make changes?
  Send it.
  I’ve sent it.
  Great.  We’ll have Terry forward that onto the team.  Hopefully you get a sense that Cortana on the PC really will provide a new natural way for people to interact with these PC devices, whether they’re small, light form factors you’re carrying around, or an all-in-one that’s in a room of your home or office.  It is the world’s most personal digital assistant and now it’s going to be available to millions and millions of people who will all have a chance to get to know Cortana and will continue making her smarter and more capable as time goes on.
She has an integrated search capability that makes her able to do uniquely PC kinds of tasks, like finding files and finding photos.  And what you saw here is the current state of our build.  This capability will be rolling out to insiders for us to work on and tune over the next several months, including getting to various countries as we ramp up towards our launch.  So that is Cortana on the PC.
Next, I’m going to change gears and talk a little bit about some devices that we haven’t shown yet.  I want to focus now on phones and small tablets.  Now as you’ve seen in a bunch of our presentations, and as Terry mentioned, Windows 10 is designed for a wide range of devices, a very wide range.  But what we’re doing is tailoring it to be appropriate in its user experience for certain form factors.  And what you’ve seen so far is the tailored version of Windows 10 for devices that are eight inches and above.  So that’s laptops, desktops, two-in-ones, and even the eight-inch tablet that you saw me bring out on stage before.
What I’m going to show you now is the Windows 10 version that’s tailored for devices that are smaller than eight inches.  So think about small tablets and a wide range of phones at all sizes.  I’m going to show you a build that we’re working on now to roll out to Insiders in a little while.  It is a little rough.  Again, we’re going to be looking at code that’s being developed.  But let me show you what the experience is like when we have Windows 10 on a phone or small tablet.
So what I have here is a Lumia 1520.  Let me see if I can pull myself out here a little farther.  This is a Lumia 1520 running a recent build of Windows 10.  And I’m going to show you, first I’m going to focus just on the core experience, and give you a sense of how it aligns with the PC, how it will be a great companion to the PC.
So let me unlock.  And the first thing you’ll notice, the start experience is quite familiar to people who have been using Windows Phone in the past.  But if you look there, you can see in the background I’ve got a full bleed customized background image, a nice personalization feature that a lot of our users have been asking for.  If I pan over to the right, you’ll see we’ve promoted the recently installed apps right to the top of the app list.  So they’re really easy to find when you’re installing and using apps.  So another nice feature that we’ve been getting lots of requests for.
I want to show you the action center, which has added some new features and is now synched up with the PC.  I can do things like dismiss single items that are shown here as notifications.  I can now expand the action buttons just like you saw on the PC.  So I get a completely consistent and familiar experience going from one device to another.
I also want to give you a quick look at the settings experience here, which again we’ve implemented as a universal app to be the same across the PC, small tablets, tablets, and phones.  It’s a little more organized and easier for people to find things, something we’ve been getting a lot of requests for from people.
Oh, look at this, I’m getting a text right in the middle of my demo.  That can’t be a coincidence, can it?
So I also wanted to give you a quick look at how we’re evolving input and messaging, which we view as part of the core experience of phones.
So here I’m getting this text from Marcus, “When is Cortana going to send her first email to the team?”  Well, she did that already.  You guys saw that.
Now I’m going to reply.  And, of course, I think you all are familiar with the Word Flow keyboard on Windows Phone today, which is terrific.  It has built-in shape writing.  It learns about the things that you type.  We’ve made some improvements there.
I’m just going to give you a quick look here.  On this large-screen phone, I can pull the keyboard right over to the right and then do my shape writing with one hand.  So that’s kind of cool.  But I’m not going to do that right now because the theme for today is this natural interaction.  And lighting these devices up with natural interaction like speech.
You’ll notice as well right there above the keyboard there’s now a microphone button.  So anywhere I can type, I can now talk to reply or put text into the phone, which is a super handy thing to be able to do throughout the phone.
I sent it to Terry Myerson, and he’s going to forward it.  Hashtag, let the good times roll.  So there you see, I talked to my phone, surprise, surprise.  My text was recognized, but notice some of the details.  I said “Terry Myerson” which of course is not a word in the dictionary.  But he’s a contact that I have, so that utterance was recognized, capitalized.
You notice it got the hashtag as a keyword, it put some punctuation at the end of the sentence.  It will do these things automatically so that when I talk to the phone, the speech system is sophisticated enough to make the text come out just right.  So let me send that text message along.
Now, the last thing that I want to show you about the core experience on the phone, and then I’m going to talk about a bunch of value add across all these devices, is how we’re going to improve the messaging experience.  And to do that, we’re going to switch over here to a motion study because this code is not yet ready for me to demo in a real build.
What we’re doing is we’re building in support to the messaging app so that IP-based messaging systems like the ones that mobile operators are rolling out and Skype can be elegantly integrated right into messaging.
So here you can see I was having an SMS conversation with Peter, but I switched over to Skype.  And now because the Skype network is so capable, as Peter is typing, as I’m getting my reply, you can see it showed that he was typing and the message came right in.
We’re going to be doing work to detect the Skype-capable end points and automatically move to Skype so that users get the richest possible messaging experience that will communicate with the widest range of people.  Everyone on a mobile operator network, and everyone on Skype, including the cross-platform devices on which Skype runs.
So we’re thrilled to be building that part of the experience with our Skype team right into messaging, right into calling, so you’ll have that rich Skype experience as part of the phone.
So what you saw in the core experience of the phone and small tablet version of Windows 10 is it’s tuned for devices under eight inches.  It’s designed to go with your PC as a great companion that’s consistent and easy to learn.  And with the Skype capability, we’re going to enable the widest range of people to communicate with each other richly using messaging, calling, and video.
But to get a full view of the kinds of things that we’re putting on phones and small tablets, and today it’s not even a complete view, but to get the full view, I need to talk to you about universal apps because we’re building a wide family of universal apps that will round out the experience on phones, small tablets, and PCs.
You all are aware that we have a platform for writing these universal apps that runs across devices, phones, tablets, PCs, even the Xbox.  And what we’re doing is creating a family of apps that will be built in that will give our customers everything they need for modern productivity.
So I’m going to show you a series of these apps.  I’m going to show them to you on the phone and the PC.  And I want you to think about how they make the experience rationalized and easy as you go from device to device and they offer that mobility of experience that Terry was describing.
The first one I’m going to focus on is Office.  I think a lot of you know our Office team has been hard at work creating killer universal apps for Windows.  And we’ve shown some early looks at these at some conferences like our Build Conference, but so far, only on the PC.
Today, I’m going to show you a preview version of these on the phone.  And just to be clear, what you’re seeing are Office apps that are designed for Windows 10 and designed for touch.  But we’re going to continue to evolve our full Win32 Office apps specifically for the PC.  These ones were made for devices with touch screens.
So let me switch back over here.  I’m still on the phone.  And what I’m going to do is start with Word, Excel, and PowerPoint.  Word, Excel, and PowerPoint will be included in Windows 10 on phones and small tablets, and they’re going to deliver a consistent, highly rich and highly complete Office experience on those devices.
So as I open up Word, you see I get this familiar recent document list.  I’m going to choose this pretty sophisticated Word document.  And it first shows up in page layout mode.  But I’m going to use this button to switch to reflow mode, which is optimized for viewing on a touch-based device like a phone or a small tablet.
And you can see here, it’s a very rich, complete Word document.  The formatting is entirely accurate, but you really get a sense of the richness when I bring up the app bar down here at the bottom because what we’ve done is nicely format the familiar Office ribbon right into the app bar experience.
Here’s the Word home tab where I have all the formatting commands that I would expect to find in Word.  I can switch the ribbon over to one of its different tabs.  I’ll switch to the review tab.  And you can imagine, somebody sends me, I’m collaborating with somebody on a Word document.  They’ve suggested some changes.  I can now use the review tab that I use all the time on the PC to move from change to change, accept a change, reject a change, add comments, read the comments, do my collaboration while I’m on the go.
And with a device like this, you get a nearly no-compromises experience in terms of completeness, fidelity, and richness as you’re trying to create documents or collaborate with people on documents.  We think this will be a great benefit to everybody trying to be productive on their phones.
Now, I’m not going to show you Excel, just in the interest of time, but I am going to show you PowerPoint.  And so, once again, you’ll see, I open PowerPoint.  It’s that familiar Office look with the recent list right there.
I’m going to open a very large and complex PowerPoint presentation.  Here we go.  And I want to point out that recent document list, it does roam from device to device, from version of Office to version of Office.
So if I’m using full Win32 Office on my PC and editing a document in my OneDrive or OneDrive for Business, that recent list roams across devices.
When I open up this PowerPoint presentation, I want to show you, once again, here on the bottom of the screen, we’ve brought the familiar Office ribbon right to the phone’s app bar experience, and I can switch here to transition view, to slide show view, or to review view, just as I did on the phone.
But I’m not going to do that.  Instead, I want to show you how great a PowerPoint presentation can look when it’s projected using any of the recent phones, which have hugely powerful processors and very capable graphics parts.
So in this case, I’m going to pan through this and you’ll see — watch the screen, how smooth the animations and transitions are.  That’s an on-slide animation.
I’m going to keep going.  You’ll see the hardware-accelerated slide transitions, and then again, a slide animation.  And once again, hardware-accelerated transitions, slide animations.  And all of that I’m doing today with a wire just because we have lots of people doing wireless in here, but of course we support Miracast so you can present wirelessly.
With these Office apps and as part of Windows 10 on phones and small tablets, we’ll also support wireless printing.  So we think this version of Office tailored for Windows 10 on touch devices will give people a very complete, easy-to-use, consistent, cross-device productivity experience.
OK, I’m going to keep going.  Those three apps will come as part of the Windows 10 build on phones.  Now I’m going to start talking about some apps that also come on the PC.
I’m going to show you the Outlook Mail client first.  Our Outlook team has been working on a new universal app version of Outlook Mail and Outlook Calendar, which will be on the phone, tablets, and PCs.  So here’s Outlook.  The first thing I want to do here is I want to show you the richness of the Outlook experience and how it fits into full Office.
So I’m going to open a mail message and I’m going to choose to reply because the first thing I want to show you is that right here, when I’m composing an email or replying to an email, I’m actually using the full Word engine that’s now part of the phone experience.
And I can prove that by pulling up the app bar, right here in my Outlook Mail experience, I get the same Word ribbon.  I can do all that nice, rich Word formatting right here in my email experience.  And sort of the intensely geeky part of my demo right here for all of you in the room who I know are very familiar with Word, Word’s engine supports the Lorem Function, which I can enter, and when I press return, it provides a whole bunch of Greek text for me to be able to format and do cool things with, but in the interest of time, I won’t do that.  I will let you all try that yourselves when you get the Insider builds of this, and you can play around with that full Word engine built right in here to the Outlook email on the phone.
I’m going to keep going.  And actually what I want to do now, I want to give you one quick look at messages here in the in box because the team has tried to ensure that you can use this in a very fast, convenient way.
What I’m going to do here is go through and show you how the Outlook team has implemented this cool idea where a left swipe will delete, a right swipe will set a flag.  And what that means is you can quickly go through a bunch of mail and figure out the stuff you want to get rid of and the stuff you want to keep.  This modality will be familiar to some of you in the audience.  I can go left and say no, no, no.  I’ll go right and say yes, yes, yes, no.  So we’ll do one more yes.
And so I can flag items, make them visible.  And then as I use this experience across my devices, let’s switch over to the PC, you’ll see here’s that same code.  It’s literally the same code written to our Universal App Platform.  I was showing it to you on the phone, and here it is on the PC.  This is the Outlook experience on the PC.  This Outlook Mail client will be part of Windows 10.  Our synch just caught up.
And you’ll notice it’s familiar.  It looks very similar.  On the PC, it has this personalizable image, which I’ve set to my son and I.  And I can do the same UI.  I can go all of the to remove, right to flag.  If I choose an email, of course it goes over there.  And, again, I have the same rich capability right there and you see the ribbon is displayed in place on email.
Now, I want to keep going because I want to show you a bunch of these apps.  So I’m going to start speeding up, and I’m going to attempt to do two-handed demoing on phone and PC at the same time.
So the next thing I’m going to do is go to the calendar.  Let me open the calendar.  And you saw on the PC, I did this in a familiar way just by clicking the calendar right down there in the bottom, something lots of Outlook users are accustomed to.
And here, you can see the calendar is rich and attractive, it’s familiar, it’s high-performance, I can scroll around all these items.  I’m now going to zoom out on the PC and you’ll see I can zoom — I’m doing a pinch zoom.  I’m going to zoom all the way out to a month view.  Then I’m going to zoom back in.  And I can do this across both devices.  I’ll try to do it simultaneously.
I’m zooming in to pick the number of days that I want.  I can go to a single-day view, but on this screen, that doesn’t make sense.
You’ll see, I have my appointments categorized, so they show up in color on both devices.  That’s a quick look at Calendar.
Now, let me keep going because we didn’t focus only on sort of the apps that are kind of business-oriented in their productivity, but we wanted to cover personal use cases that bleed over into business scenarios as well.
So I want to give you a look at our brand new Photos App.  This is another universal app.  It’s implemented once and it runs across these devices.  This is the same code running on the phone and the PC.
So I’m going to pan through here.  I’ll give you a look at the UI.  You can see it’s basically a simple, straightforward look at all my photos.  You can see on the phone there, it’s caching images from OneDrive.
I’m going to come back down here.  You’ll see on the left, I have this app-switching UI, and I can bring that up on the phone so you see what it looks like on the phone.  It’s the same code running on both devices, but formatted to fit the right screen.
And, hopefully, as you saw me pan through this collection, one of your take-aways was, man, that looks nice.  Joe must have done a bunch of work to set it up for the demo.
Well, what we’re trying to do is make the software do the work for you.  So I want to describe what’s going on behind the scenes here.
On any device that you own, even cross-platform devices, phones, where you’re taking pictures, we have a OneDrive app, and it’s built in on Windows devices, that uploads your images to OneDrive.
On the PC, we’re synching your images down from OneDrive to the PC so they’re available locally offline as well as in the cloud.
This photo app is aggregating together all of those photos from all of those devices and giving you one simple view of your collection.
If you want, you can go into the folders view and look at the detail, but we’re going to try to give you one simple view.
Once you start doing that, some bad things will happen.  You’ll get duplicate photos that are showing up twice.  You’ll get photos that are a burst shot where you took three of them.  Our collection view eliminates all those things for you automatically so that you get a look at the photos without seeing all that clutter.
Another thing we do is we automatically enhance the photos to make them look nice.  So here are some photos going back in time.  And this one is a good example of that Auto Enhance mode.
You notice up there in the toolbar, Auto Enhance is on because it’s on by default.  But I’m going to show you what this would look like if it was off.  I’m not sure I want that scary guy in my Christmas photo collection.
Luckily, Auto Enhance handles all these things for you.  I’ll turn it back on.  You see the red eyes are removed, the face is brightened to just the right level of brightness, and so we’ve made the photo look better.
Unfortunately, there’s nothing we can do about the horrific Christmas sweater.  But we’re still happy with the capabilities that we’re building in on the PC and in the cloud to do this auto enhancement which you’ll get benefit from on all your devices.
In case you’re one of those users who wants to do things manually, of course we will let you manage these settings yourself as well.  You can turn any of these features off and so on.
Now, not everything I described is going to be in the first build for Insiders, but the features will be coming.
There’s one other feature of photos that I want to show that’s not yet in our build.  So we’re going to run a motion study here.  And this is showing our albums feature.  I mentioned how we’re going to automatically remove dupes, automatically improve the way pictures look.  We’re going to also automatically create albums.
So what you see here in the collection view at the top are automatic albums that we created.  And we do this by detecting the place, the time, the people that were all in a series of photos.  And then we create a collection which we call an album.
If we can, we give it a name.  We let you manage it yourself if you’d like to, but we’ll do it for you.
When I open one of these albums, you’ll see we choose a hero image, one that we think looks best.  We show you the people that are in the album.  That’s me with my kids doing a 5K run.
And then we choose a sample set of photos that we think tell the story of the event.  We format them so they look nice on the screen, we handle all of that automatically for you.  It’s in the cloud so then if you’d like to share that album with other people, you can.
Our intention here is to have a photos app that exists on all these devices and that deals with the complexity of all the images you’re taking with your multiple devices and make it work consistently across all of them.  It’s that mobility of experience that Terry was talking about.  And part of it we can do because we’re implementing it one time using our Universal Platform.
Now I’ve got three more apps I’m going to show you, and I’m going to go even faster so you get a sense of overview.  We’re going to do this by motion study.
The first one is our People App, which we’re implementing, again, as a universal app.  One time across these devices.  It aggregates all the people you care about across social networks and it lets you perform quick actions like making a call or sending a message or doing a Skype video call.
Next, up, our music experience, which we’re continuing to evolve across all these devices.  And what you’ll see here is how we’re using the cloud to add a song to a playlist, and then it shows up magically on all your devices.  That’s because in about a month or two months, we’re going to add support to our system for you to put your music collection in OneDrive and have your collection stored in the cloud.  So you can make changes to your playlists or to your collection on any device and they’re automatically reflected on all your devices.
Next up, I want you to see our maps experience, which starts with some Cortana integration.  Cortana has recognized that traffic is slow, so you can open the Maps App on your PC, find an alternate route, send it to your phone.  And then when you use the turn-by-turn directions to drive somewhere and you arrive, you can have Cortana remember where you parked your car.  And then when your event’s over, she’s there to help you find where you parked.
So that is a quick tour of our family of universal apps that we’re building for the phone, small tablets, and PCs.  And which we intend to deliver everything that you need for modern productivity.  And which we intend to give you that mobile experience tailored for each device size they’re on.
In particular, we’re excited to have Office bringing a version of Office built for Windows 10 and optimized for touch with Word, Excel, and PowerPoint on the default phone experience and available in the store on the PC, and with a new Outlook Mail and Calendar rounding out the experience so it’s great for productivity.
I have one more app experience I want to show you.  And to do that, I want to get you thinking about the state of the Web.  The Web is indispensable.  Everybody’s using it all the time.  And over the last number of years, it’s evolved hugely in large part because of the explosion of highly powerful mobile devices.
We’ve seen site authors evolving their sites in sophisticated and interesting ways, targeting a wide range of devices.
And since we’ve had this rapid evolution of the Web and since we’re building this new set of devices on Windows 10 with the Universal Platform, we think it’s the right time to build a new browser for the modern Web which will empower our next generation of Windows users on Windows 10.
So today I’m excited to introduce you to code-name “Project Spartan,” our new Web browsing experience for Windows 10.
So “Project Spartan” has a number of parts.  First, it has a new rendering engine under the covers that’s built to be compatible with how the Web is written today.  It has a new look and feel, which you see on the screen, that fits right in with all this family of Windows 10 applications, and we’re especially working on three significant new features to make you more productive on the Web with “Project Spartan.”
So I’m going to switch over for the last demo and let you take a look at “Project Spartan” running on the PC.
Now, “Project Spartan” will not be in a very first Insider build.  It’s going to come a little later, and it will come to the phone a little after that.  I’m going to show you it only on the PC today, but it is coming to the phone.
The first thing you’ll notice here is the new UI.  It’s streamlined, it fits in with the design language of Windows 10, and you can see the focus is on the content on the page.
But what I want to do is just give you a taste of these three significant new features we’re working on to help people be more productive.
The first one is about how you can interact with the Web, and in particular, how you might communicate with other people about the Web.
So sometimes Web articles come out and people want to post them to Facebook or they want to talk to other people about them.  There’s a lot of interaction that happens with content on the Web.  And this happened to our team about two weeks ago.  And it happened when this article posted on the Internet.
This article comes out, and you can imagine all of us are simultaneously horrified and kind of happy.  And so, of course, within our team, we communicated with each other about this article on the Web, but we had “Spartan.”  So we didn’t simply send emails.  Many of us had devices that work with pens or styluses, which I have here.  So I’m going to switch into the first of these big three features, our note-taking mode.
And you can imagine when I saw this, I saw, oh, baby, you know, sometimes you guys don’t get it right, but sometimes you do.  So, you know, we saw this and we were excited and we communicated with each other by marking up the Web directly.  And in this case, I’m using a stylus, but I can do it with just my finger if I don’t have a pen handy.  I’m going to make a little smiley face to show just how happy I am, that’s possible too.  And so now we have this way of expressing our thoughts right on the canvas of the Web.
It was interesting because this article came out and a bunch of people speculated, oh, I hope Microsoft isn’t only doing this for devices with touch and pen.  We’re not.
So let me show you how we’re going to support the mode of communicating about documents that millions of people have been doing for years and years with Word.  They can click anywhere and add a comment using their keyboard.  This is a good idea.
So you could imagine as we saw this article, some people had touch devices, some didn’t.  Everyone could comment on it using whatever form of input they had.  You know, if it’s touch, then it’s natural; if it’s a keyboard, then it’s familiar.
And so once I’ve marked up this page, there are a bunch of things I can do with it, of course.  What we’ve done is we’ve frozen the Web page.  That means that the content that might change on it is sort of snapped in time, but the links are still alive.  I can then share that whole page or save that whole page for myself with my markup, or I can go over here — I’m going to grab this clipping tool.  And I’m going to just pull out this particular segment.
You can see, there I could save it to my OneNote because I keep a bunch of notes on things as I browse the Web when I’m planning trips and so on.  I could copy it to the clipboard, or I can come right up here and use the system’s built-in system for sharing to share that with other people.
I can share it on Facebook, I can share it on Twitter.  I can share it through my email experience in a consistent way.  And now I have a rich canvas for not only expressing my thoughts on the Web, but for sharing them with other people as well.
So that’s the first of our three significant end user features.
The second thing that we tried to do was focus on the action of reading.  I mean, the predominant action on the Web is reading.  You’re reading and reading and reading and reading.  And we felt if we could make that just a few percentage points better, then we’d significantly affect the overall productivity of people on the Web.
So there are a few things we did.  The first thing we did was we looked at how we can take and sort of standardize a great way to read sites on the Web which are variant in their level of complexity and so on.
So here’s an article on Bon Appetit.  I’m going to switch into my reading mode right here, and you’ll see we discoverably make available a standardized format way for you to read stuff on the Web.
And you can personalize this to your liking so that you have a way to experience a wide range of content out there on the Web in a way that might feel familiar to you.
We didn’t stop there.  We also added a reading list right into the core browsing experience.  And of course, this will show up on whatever device you have.
I can add items to the reading list.  It’s a mobile experience that goes to whatever device I’m using.  And we do one more thing, which is that we’ll take the content in your reading list and save it offline.  So if you find yourself stuck on a flight with no Wi-Fi and your mobile device is with you, well, “Spartan” will deliver you content to read wherever you are.
And then the last thing that we wanted to do was we wanted to make sure that we supported the broadest set of content that’s out there on the Web.  So we built in support for PDF files.
And you see right here, I have a sample PDF file.  I can add that to my reading list.  I can mark it up with notes in the note-taking mode.  It’ll be saved offline and so on.  So we’re really trying to ensure that the widest range of content on the Web is available for people to read wherever they are.
OK, last thing.  The third thing that we tried to do to make people more productive on the Web was to give you a personal assistant to help you be productive on the Web.
So we’re building Cortana right into “Spartan.”  And the idea is that Cortana will show up at the right opportune moments to help you get things done.
So there are some simple things she can do.  So if I’m in my address bar and I’m curious about the weather, I can start typing “weather” and Cortana will pop up and be helpful in simple situations like that.
But because she knows you, she can help in more interesting and nuanced ways at times that might surprise you a little bit.
So let’s say it’s my sister’s birthday.  It’s not, but for demo purposes, let’s imagine it’s my sister’s birthday.  And her friends are having a surprise birthday party for her tonight.
Remember my wife has that flight that’s coming in that Cortana is tracking for me?  Man, is my wife going to get here on time for us to make it to the party?  I’m not sure.  I might go to the Delta website to look up my wife’s flight, but luckily Cortana knows that I’m tracking a flight because she’s learning things about me all the time, and she can save me time and effort by popping up as I’m about to navigate somewhere on the Web with what might be an answer to a question that I have in mind.  So that’s yet another example of how Cortana can help out.
Similarly, as I’m browsing the Web, Cortana can be right there at my fingertips ready to let me know things about the pages I’m looking at.
So you can see here my sister’s party’s going to be at this restaurant called Cuoco.  My wife is gluten-free, dairy-free, and I’m on a crazy diet for New Year’s.  And so we have this concern about a restaurant and what’s on the menu, and I wonder like how am I going to get there from here.
You notice when I visit the restaurant site, Cortana has popped up right here to tell me she knows about this place because again Cortana is scouring the Internet, learning about people and places and getting smarter all the time.  She’s telling me she’s got directions, hours and more.
When I click, she shows up right here within the Web browser to give me details about this place.  She’s telling me directions from where I’m at right now, and I can make those available on whatever device I’m on.  She can book a reservation for me.  She shows me the hours.  I can read reviews and so on.
Remember my concern about the menu?  Well, Cortana’s there to help, too.  She knows where the menu for this restaurant is on the Internet.  She makes it readily available.  And if I’m curious about ingredients as I scan down this — I know what a lot of these things are, I’m not so sure about rapini, I can just right-click and ask Cortana and she’s right there with an answer.  Luckily, rapini — only 2.7 grams of carbs, so that will be OK for me on my New Year’s diet.
That’s a quick look at “Project Spartan.”  It’s a new implementation of a Web browsing experience, built on our new universal platform, and it goes cross-device.  It’s great at productivity, with note-taking right on the Web.  We’re trying to tune the reading experience to make people more efficient.  And it’s the only browser with a personal assistant built right in.
OK, that is my look at Windows 10 and where we’re at, and a whole bunch of features that will be coming for insiders to try out over the next few months.  Three, four, five months, these things will all come in at different times, but what you saw today was an early look at where we’re at in the development of these.
We’re bringing Cortana to the PC, and we’re going to change the way people use PCs through this natural interaction.
“Project Spartan” is a new browsing experience tuned for being mobile and working across these devices.
We have a family of universal apps, including Office, that are going to make people productive with these devices.
And in all cases the user experience is tuned to a wide variety of form factors, so you get benefit from things like Continuum where your device will adapt to how you use it.
There is one big app experience that I did talk about.  I was focused on productivity.  But we care just as much about entertainment, people having fun on our devices.  So to cover that off, I’m excited to introduce to the stage Phil Spencer, who’s going to take you through gaming and entertainment in Windows 10.
Come on out, Phil.  
  Thanks, Joe.
Good morning.  I’m Phil Spencer, and as the head of the Xbox team, I lead the talented and creative teams responsible for gaming at Microsoft.  I’m incredibly proud to be here with you this morning to talk about gaming on Windows 10.
Earlier, you heard Terry describe our vision for more personal computing.  I’m here to talk about how games as a form of entertainment are incredibly personal.  We’re not just viewers, we’re participants.  Whether we’re in the trenches with our friends fighting for survival or winning the race against the best drivers in the world or exploring and building new worlds, gaming has always been inherently personal.  We’re deeply invested in our worlds and our play when we can share our triumphs, our stories, and our greatest creations with our friends.
We at Xbox have the most active social network of gamers in the world with Xbox Live, with over 50 million members.  And by combining the feedback from this great community with our vision for making all aspects of computing more personal, we’ve identified several ways to make PC gaming even more incredible than it is today.
Gaming has become a much more social activity, with everything from friendly co-op between close friends to professional tournaments with hundreds of people spread across continents.
Connection and community are central to the game experience.
Today, we’ll show you how gaming on Windows 10 will be more social and interactive by bringing together the best of the games you love to play, the people you play with, and the epic moments they create.
All of this comes together in the Xbox app on Windows 10.  I want to take this opportunity to show you the app.
It starts with My Games, which is the collection of everything I play on any device.
My friends list connects me to all my friends by gamer tag wherever they are and wherever I am.
Messages keeps me in touch across all Windows 10 devices, Xbox and the Web.
And the heartbeat of Xbox Live is the activity feed, which lists all the important gaming moments for me and my friends.
Now, I’m going to launch the app and show you the section, show you live working code here.
So I have this nice Alienware PC that my friends let me use.  I appreciate that.  Clicking the Start menu.
On every Windows 10 PC and tablet you will have the Xbox app.
And here it is.  You see the sections that I mentioned.  Now, down the left you have my gamer picture, my Gamertag, my score, the games I play.  This is My Games.  I’ll come back to the activity feed in a second.  And down the right you have all of my friends.
One thing I didn’t say about friends in the messaging area is I’m able to voice chat and text chat across platform with all of my friends on Xbox Live.
Now, the activity feed, for those who don’t know, this is the area where everything that happens on Xbox Live is shared with all the friends and followers that you have.
I have a friend, Melody Bolton, here.  She’s an amazing “Minecraft” creator.  Some of you might have heard of “Minecraft.”  It’s something that last year we were able to bring into the Microsoft Studios collection of games.  And I’m always incredibly inspired by the community there and what they create.
So this is a clip that she created on Xbox One.  Just like people taking photos with Instagram and sharing them with their friends, people do this on Xbox Live all the time.  Let’s look at this clip.
Now, she’s told me to wait to the end because there’s a special creation at the end of this clip.
  TNT is always a favorite in the “Minecraft” world.  Very nice.  OK.  So I like this clip.  I want to share it with all of my friends and all of my followers on Xbox Live.  I’m able to like it by clicking on the heart icon.  I can leave a comment telling people to watch until the end and then post that comment.
Now, as I said, on the console, we’ve seen millions and millions of these clips created and shared.  And you can do this on Windows today.  There’s special hardware and other applications that allow you to create game DVR clips.
But we thought about how could we bring this technology right in the operating system itself?  Allowing people from any Windows game to share those epic moments.
As I said before, Windows gaming is incredibly vibrant today.  I happen to be a big Steam customer.  So let me go into Steam.  You see all of my games down the left on Steam.  Steam runs incredibly well on Windows 10.  I’m using it to launch one of my favorite current games, “Sid Meier, Beyond Earth.”
So this is a game that, obviously, shipped before Windows 10 was even a word.  It knows nothing about Xbox Live, but it’s obviously running on Windows 10.  I’m going to launch it, and I’m going to show you how the game DVR feature on Windows works.
So let me just start a single-player game.  I’m just going to start a simple game from the beginning so you’ll see it.  Come on, there it is.  Play.
So here’s the game.  So I’m going to make a couple moves.  Move these guys.  Scary green guys.  OK, with a simple click, control G — Windows G, excuse me — Windows G, I bring up the UI for saving game play clips on any Windows game.
Now, usually what will happen, what you’ll see, and a lot of apps will allow you to do this, you click the red circle, you start a recording session, you record the gameplay that you want, then you can store that off.
But what we found on console is those epic moments are unexpected.  It’s something that you weren’t expecting to happen, and on the console, with a couple clicks of the button, you’re actually able to save the last 30 seconds of game play.  Something you didn’t know, and you’re really surprised.  And we wanted to build that right into Windows 10 as well.
So by clicking on this icon here, I’m actually capturing the last 30 seconds of gameplay on any game running on Windows.  Click it.  You see the toast come up here, shows the clip has been recorded.  Takes me back into the Xbox app where I can do the same things I can do on the Xbox.  I can clip from either side, I can share it to Xbox Live, which you saw what Melody did with her “Minecraft” clip.  Or I can share on any other social network.
Now, I’m going to choose to share this out to OneDrive, which will give me the video clip from the game DVR from “Civilization, Beyond Earth,” and I can take that and share it anywhere.
We think this will create more incredible viralness for the game developers and the gaming fans out there who want to share their moments.  Bringing more power to Windows 10 gaming is incredibly important to us.
Now, DirectX is the graphic subsystem inside of Windows 10.  And DirectX will make the games you’re playing today even better.
What you’re going to see on screen here is a visual comparison that’s under development at Futuremark which shows the same piece of hardware running DirectX 11 and DirectX 12.  And we’re adding more complexity to the scene.  Actually, eventually, the DirectX 11 side is going to side.  Frame rate effectively hits zero.
And you can see the DirectX 12 side continues to add complexity and continues to keep a high frame rate.  Again, same piece of hardware running, one on DirectX 11, one on Direct X 12.
Performance has always been incredibly important in DirectX.  What we’ve done with DirectX 12 is we’ve given developers much more fine control of CPU and GPU, given them direct control.  And for CPU-bound games, it will actually increase the performance of those games by up to 50 percent, which is going to allow developers to create amazing scenes on screen.  Their artists will go crazy with the amount of complexity that they can add.
But with DirectX 12, we also know that people are playing millions of games on phones today and other devices that are powered by battery.  So we thought, how can we take advantage of the increased performance but also focus on battery life?  People want to play those games longer, they want them to look great.  So with DirectX 12 and our focus on power consumption, we’ve actually cut the power consumption required in half for the same scenes from people using DirectX 11, which means you’re going to see more incredible games on mobile devices that people can play for even a longer time.
I think it’ll be great for the huge mobile gaming development out there, and you see more and more high-end mobile games that are just really taking advantage of the graphic capability.
Now, none of this is possible if we’re not getting the adoption from the studios out there.  We have hundreds of studios, we’re incredibly happy they’re already using DirectX 12.  Our friends at Epic with the Unreal Engine 4 have adopted DirectX 12.
I’m announcing today that our friends at Unity, one of the largest game engines in the industry, have also adopted DirectX 12, which will unlock the DirectX 12 capability for the thousands of developers out there from schools to high-end developers to take advantage of what Direct X brings.
Now, today, people are playing games on more devices than ever.  And with Windows 10, we wanted to focus on those gaming scenarios across devices, with the Xbox that we’re bringing to Windows 10 and our first-party portfolio.  So please help me in welcoming my friend Lauran from Lionhead Studios will come out on stage.  
  Hi, Phil.  I’m actually in a game right now.  Do you want to have a look at your friends list?  You’ll see me and you’ll be able to join my game.
  There she is.  LH Albion Girl, Lauran Carter.  And she is playing “Fable Legends” on that Xbox One right there.  I’m on this Windows 10 device that I showed you earlier running the Xbox app.  And by simply clicking on her name, I can join her game right now.
  So “Fable Legends” is the latest in the popular “Fable” RPG series, and today we’re excited to announce that the game will be coming to Windows 10 PCs as well as the Xbox One.   All right, let’s go get those creatures, Phil.
  I’m here to help.
  So Phil is playing on his Windows 10 PC, and I’m on the Xbox One.  What’s great about “Legends” on Windows 10 is it enables PC players to play with or against players on the Xbox One.  
We’re also using DirectX 12 to give our players a gorgeous world like they’ve never seen before. 
  Oh, the ogre!
 Oh, there’s quite a few bad guys.
  You can do it, nice.
  And there’s the treasure.  So later this year, join “Fable Legends” as a hero or villain on Windows 10 PC and on the Xbox One.
  Thank you, Lauran.
  Thank you.  
  Good job.
Now, for those who were watching on my screen, you might have seen that I achieved an achievement, just like I have on Xbox 360, Xbox One, achievements are an incredible part of our Xbox Live ecosystem.  I got an achievement, it showed up in my activity feed, all of my friends know that, OK, I got this achievement playing “Fable Legends.”
We think enabling people to play multi-player games on Windows 10, multi-player games across Xbox One and Windows 10 will really unlock the potential of Xbox Live and grow the social network that’s there today.
Now, today we’ve talked about the games that you already own and how we can make those better with DirectX 12, how we can make those better with features like Game DVR.  We’ve talked about your existing hardware and how that will get better with DirectX 12.
The one thing we haven’t talked about is the library of games you already own on Xbox One, especially the console-exclusive games, which aren’t available on Windows.  Wouldn’t it be great if we could play those games from anywhere in our house?  From the couch, out back, in my bedroom.
I’m here to announce that with Windows 10, we will enable streaming of Xbox One games to any Windows 10 PC or tablet in your home later this year.  And I’m going to show you a demo of that on stage right now.
So I’m now moving over to this Surface Pro 3 here.  There it is.  Now, if you follow me and watch what I play at all, you know I’m a big “Forza” fan.  So I wanted to take this opportunity to show off one of my favorite games, “Forza Horizon 2.”  You see it here in my recent games list here.
Now, I’ve already set up a relationship between this Surface and my Xbox One in my home.  I do that one time, the Xbox app will find all of the Xbox Ones in your home and you set up that relationship.  So in my games, it’s actually showing me all of the games that are installed on my Xbox One and making them available right here inside the application.
So I can click on “Forza Horizon 2” and you see stream from the Xbox One.  And we’re starting the stream, and here we are.
Now, I’m going to pause state on “Forza Horizon 2,” in a second, I’m going to unpause it, and you’ll see the game running from an Xbox One streaming to this Surface Pro 3, and me controlling it with this controller.
So here we go.  You can see, frame rate, resolution, the game looks great.  I’m playing against AI characters right now.  I could be playing a multi-player game.  I’m going to try to pass this one person.  OK.  So we got past one.
I can bring up the Xbox UI right here.  Now, I know I’m done playing.  With the click of a button, I’m actually able to turn off the console right here from the Xbox app as well, and I’m going to do that.  And I’m back in the Xbox app.
We think it’s an amazing unlock for our Xbox One customers because they’re going to be able to play the great library of games that they already own on any Windows 10 PC or tablet in the home.
I hope you’ve enjoyed a look at some of the exciting changes coming to make gaming even better on Windows.  We’ve seen how Xbox One on Windows 10 will bring an entirely new integrated experience for connecting gamers across devices and how Windows 10 is bringing new capability to games you already own.  And how Windows 10 will unlock your existing library of games on Xbox One to enable play on all of your Windows 10 devices.
While Xbox is coming to Windows, Windows 10 is also coming to Xbox One.  Joe did a great job of demoing amazing Windows features, and you should wait to hear more from us as those features find their way onto Xbox.
Now, with Xbox moving to Windows, I don’t think we’re going to see millions of people using Excel on their Xbox, but I do know for developers that want to bring their application over to the television screen, this is going to make it very easy for them to do so.
At Microsoft, we work hard to create the most fun and engaging games and entertainment experiences.  And to be successful and to meet the high expectations of a passionate fan base, we have to put the gamer at the center of every experience.  This philosophy is not only foundational to Xbox, but it’s been central to the development of the gaming experiences on Windows 10.
You have my commitment and the commitment of the entire Xbox team that we will great gaming on Windows 10 with as much passion and energy as we have with the Xbox console.  You’ll see the result of that across the Windows gaming experience, in the games portfolio for Microsoft Studios and our partners, and in the Xbox Live service itself.
New ways to connect with friends, new ways to extend your gaming experience across devices, new ways to make games even better.  All with you, the gamer, at the center.
Now, this is just the beginning of our discussion about gaming on Windows 10.  We’re going to continue this throughout the year.  The next big beat for us is the Game Developers Conference in March where you’ll hear more from us on how we continue to build out the great gaming experiences on Windows 10.
You know, though, this wouldn’t be an Xbox presentation if we didn’t bring a little sizzle video.  So here’s a video of how all of this comes together.  Please take a look, and thanks for your time.  
  Wow, that’s some really cool stuff.  Now, Joe and Phil just shared with you some incredible new Windows 10 experiences.  And we don’t want to keep you waiting.  So in the next week, we will be releasing a new build of Windows 10 to our Insiders.
And then after the Seahawks win the Super Bowl, we will be releasing our first build of Windows 10 on phones.
And with these new builds, we’ll be increasing the number of languages which Windows 10 is available in from four to 25.  As the features roll out, we’re looking for that feedback from our Insiders.  How natural is Continuum on your two-in-one?  How easy is it to edit Office docs on your phone?  How fun is it to record a Windows game with Xbox Game DVR?  We’re looking forward to feedback from Insiders all over the world.
Now let’s really switch gears and talk about entirely new Windows 10 experiences.  I showed you earlier how we envisioned Windows 10 in the workplace.  On the wall, there’s this large screen.  It’s facilitating a communal experience.  The group is viewing a 3-D model.  The group is participating in a Skype call.
We saw an opportunity to create a grew new Windows experience for a device like this, but no device like it existed.  So we’ve created the first device of its kind for the Windows family.
Let me introduce Hayete to show you more.
  Thanks, Terry.  Good morning, everybody.
So we’ve built a new device to unlock the power of the group in the workplace.  I am delighted to introduce you to the Microsoft Surface Hub.  This is an 84-inch 4K display with integrated compute.  It has built-in sensors that actually detected me when I came to the screen.  It has built-in cameras, speakers, microphones, Wi-Fi, and Bluetooth.  It’s got it all.  All you need is one cable to get started.
So why don’t we get started?  Right from the welcome screen, I can get to work.  I can call, I can white board, or I can connect my personal device to share content onto the screen.
While I could talk to you about many scenarios on the Surface Hub, we’re going to focus on two things today, two key scenarios:  brainstorming, and No. 2, meetings.  And as you may have noticed, when I picked up that pen, the white board automatically launched.  What you’re seeing here is OneNote, OneNote designed for the large screen.  I can write and the ink is just fluid.  It doesn’t lag.  Just like a pen on paper.
I can even move things around.  I can make more space if I need to.  But, of course, it is not only about inking and a digital white board.  It’s about how we bring rich data to inform the brainstorming.
So let me ask David to join me so that we can show you what it looks like on the Surface Hub.  Hi, David.
 Hi, Hayete.  Hi, everyone.  Let’s open up a 3-D model of the Surface Hub.
  Because this is a Windows 10 device, I can bring all sorts of content onto the device, including applications.
In this case, David is opening a Siemens application showcasing the 3-D rendering of our Surface Hub.  As you can see, he can zoom in, zoom out, rotate, look at different views so that he can get insights.
Hey, David, do you mind putting the app side by side with the white board?
  Sure.
  I think I’ve seen something I’d like you to capture for me.  Can you find the camera for me maybe?
  Yes, there it is.
  Can you clip it to the white board?  Yeah, that’s what I’m looking for.  So as you can see, I was able to capture an image of the app, put it on the white board, and even take notes on it.  And because this is OneNote, I can actually save it to my OneNote or send an email.  So no need to take pictures of your white board with your phone anymore.
So we’ve discussed brainstorming.  Let’s switch gears now.  Let’s discuss meetings because we have lots of those.  And I think we can all agree, those meetings could be better.
Do you know that it takes an average of 12 minutes to start a meeting?  From the time you bring people on the call to bringing content, this is not a good use of our time.
So let me show you what we can do on the Surface Hub.  So David and I are having a meeting with our colleagues.  And we’re going to be discussing the design of the pen.  The meeting is already scheduled on the Surface Hub.  With one tap, I can join the meeting.  The remote attendees automatically join the call.  The content that is on the screen, they can see it as well.  They can see what David is writing, and of course, we can see them.  It’s that easy with a Surface Hub.
What you’re seeing here on the screen is Skype for Business.  It is designed for the large screen, it’s taking full advantage of the hardware, the microphones, the speakers, and the dual cameras.
Hi, team.  So why don’t we bring some content to this presentation?  After all, this is a meeting.
In meetings, quite often, it is challenging to bring content onto the screen.  And with the Microsoft Surface Hub, we’ve made it very easy for you to be able to project your content from any device via wireless or wired.
In this case, David is going to be projecting for us a deck that he prepared on the pen.  Hey, David, do you mind bringing the slide on the portfolio of pens?
  The portfolio of pens?  Sure.  I think that’s the slide you’re looking for.
  Actually, I meant this one.  So, team, this is the pen we would like to consider for final design.  As you can see, I could move the content on the screen and I could ink on it.  And not only could the remote participants see what I was doing, everything I did on the screen is reflected back on David’s device.  This is what we call ink back and touch back.  Another great example of mobility with Windows 10.
So now we’ve made a decision.  We’re ready to end the meeting.  All I need to do is go to the start button and end the session with one tap.  The content from the meeting is now shared with all the participants in the meeting.  And the device gets cleaned up.  It is now ready for use for the next meeting.  It is that easy with the Microsoft Surface Hub.
I’m very proud of what we’ve shown you today.  The best work we do is when we come together.  And we believe that with the Surface Hub, we will be able to unlock the power of the group in the workplace.  It brings the best tools to create and brainstorm, it will make your meetings productive and engaging, and it delivers a platform for amazing large-screen applications.  And, of course, it is designed in such a way that you can deploy it anywhere in the enterprise from your Office to the conference room.
We look forward to seeing our partners embracing this experience.  Thank you very much.  
  Thanks, Hayete.  Now let’s talk about the second entirely new Windows experience today.  We were inspired by the idea of mixing our applications and games back into the real world.  But, obviously, no technology exists of its kind to make this possible.
Now, in my decades in this industry, there’s been a few times, a few key moments where a technology or an experience has just blown me away.  And we’ve created one of those experiences with Windows 10.  Right here, right now, we’re going to share it with you.
Please welcome Alex Kipman.  
  Thank you, Terry.  Good morning, everyone.
A few years ago, we started asking ourselves:  Could we make things so simple that technology would just disappear?  Could we make technology more human and easier to control?  Could Windows make your digital life more powerful by connecting it with your real life?  Could we place your digital content right into your world, right into your life with more reality than ever before?
Until now, we’ve immersed ourselves in the world of technology.  But what if we could take technology and bring it into our world?
Just as punch cards turned to keyboards, and mice turned to touch, with each major advancement in input and output, technology becomes more personal.  Each advancement decreases the distance between us and technology.  Each step brings us closer to more personal ways of computing.
Today, we take the next step.  Now, I know what you might be thinking, but no, we’re not talking about putting you into a virtual world.  Now, don’t get me wrong, I’m really excited about all of the progress being made in virtual reality.  But virtual reality may not be for everyone.
We’re dreaming beyond virtual worlds, beyond screens, beyond pixels, and beyond today’s digital borders.  We’re dreaming about holograms mixed in your world.  Welcome to a new era of Windows.  Welcome to Windows Holographic.
    This is the world with holograms.  And today, you’ll not only see that holograms are real, but more importantly, this afternoon, every single person in this room will experience holograms for themselves in our lab.
So how do we get here?  Let’s think by way of example about human beings.  We’re constantly processing terabytes of information from all around us.  We are sensing and absorbing infinite noise and translating it into very simple signals.
Just think about catching a ball.  We can perform this action from a very early age.  Nobody had to teach us about it.  We didn’t have to go to years of advanced math or physics to learn how to do it.  It’s inherent in what makes us human.
Now, imagine if technology had the same sensing capability to process all of this input about the world around us so that it could see the world as we see it.  That would give us new ways to interact with technology, new ways to communicate, new ways to create, and new ways to explore.  That’s the dream we’ve been pursuing, and that’s what you get when you mix holograms in our world.
Imagine an engineer seeing instructions overlaid and in the context of their work.  Imagine an architect walking around their design, all while their clients are reviewing it remotely.  Imagine a surgeon learning a procedure without ever having to pick up a scalpel.  Or imagine, my personal favorite, imagine turning your living room into a surreal gaming environment.
Now, I know this sounds perhaps crazy, maybe even a little bit impossible.  But this is why I fell in love with this art form at a very, very early age.  In software, nothing is impossible.  At best, things are improbable.  And with a little bit of luck and a lot of pixie dust, the improbable becomes possible, and holograms can become part of our everyday life.
Holographic computing enabled by Windows 10 is here.  Every Windows 10 device has APIs focused on humans and environment understanding.  Holographic APIs are enabled inside every Windows 10 build from the little screens to the big screens to no screens at all.
At its core, Windows has always been built with an ecosystem of partners.  Throughout our history, we have brought new attributes to Windows in ways that empower not only developers, but also our device makers to unleash their creativity to the world.
Windows Holographic was created from the ground up with that same heritage in mind.  Want to create a holographic app?  Easy.  Developers, Windows 10 is yours.  Holograms are Windows Universal apps.  And all Windows Universal apps can be made to work with Windows Holographic.
We invite you to unleash your imagination and come create experiences not possible on any other device or any other platform.
Want to create a device powered by human or environment understanding?  Build for Windows 10.  Oculus, Magic Leap, Glass developers and everyone else.  We humbly invite you, come create holograms with us.
But we knew we needed more than just software to make holograms in our world a reality.  So we invented the most advanced holographic computer the world has ever seen.
I’m incredibly excited to introduce to you Microsoft HoloLens.  
This is the first fully untethered holographic computer.  HoloLens is real, and this will be available in the Windows 10 time frame.
You guys want to take a look at what’s inside?  HoloLens has see-through, holographic, high-definition lenses.  This is how we can see holograms right into our world, right into our lives, with more reality than ever before.
HoloLens has spatial sound.  So we can hear holograms even when they’re behind us.
It has advanced sensors to capture information about what we’re doing and the environments we’re in.
Now, HoloLens comes with a built-in, high-end CPU and GPU.  But that wasn’t enough.  To handle all the processing required to understand the world around us, we had to go beyond the traditional CPU/GPU.
So we invented a third processor, a holographic processing unit.  The HPU gives us the ability to understand where you’re looking, to understand your gestures, to understand your voice.  It gives us the ability to spatially map the entire world around us and to run without any wires, all while processing terabytes of information from all of these sensors, all in real time.
This is everything we need to step into the holographic landscape.  All we need to create, all we need to consume, and all we need to share holographic experiences.
HoloLens enables holographic computing natively with no markers, no external cameras, no wires, no phone required, and no connection to a PC needed.
We believe Windows 10 will fundamentally make everything people do with computers today more valuable, more immersive, and more personal.
Let’s listen to what developers that have for years been working on Windows Holographic think about the possibilities.
  As you just saw, holograms are being sculpted by some of the most creative people around.
But holograms are not just for creative people.  They can unleash the creativity in all of us.  Remember the first time you experienced Microsoft Paint or Solitaire?  Those timeless experiences let you discover what a mouse and keyboard world felt like.
In that same timeless fashion we wanted you to discover what a holographic landscape feels like.  So we created Holostudio.  Holostudio allows you to create your very own holograms.  It allows you to 3-D print them and then share them with the world.
Are you guys ready to see your very first live holographic experience, all running on Windows 10?  Please help me welcome onstage my dearest friend, Lorraine.    Hi, Lorraine.
  Hi, Alex.
  So as Lorraine gets set up, let me walk you a little bit on what you’re going to see.
I’ll point your attention to this screen here behind me where at first you’re going to see through Lorraine’s eyes.  You’re going to see exactly what she’s seeing in the hologram spin to the world.  Then as we start building, we’ll swap to this custom camera rig right here so you can easily understand how holograms fit into your world.
So let’s meet our first holographic person, and who better to introduce us to this holographic landscape than our very own Terry Myerson.
And look how well panned Terry is.  Now, remember, Lorraine is seeing the hologram in space in real time.  Shall we play it, Lorraine?
  Play.
  Wow.  Nice work, Windows 10.  I’m a freakin’ hologram.
  Welcome to Windows Holographic.  Windows knows exactly where Lorraine is looking.  And with a simple gesture, Lorraine can launch Holostudio.
With Holostudio anyone can create personalized 3-D creations in just minutes.  For today’s creation Lorraine is going to create our very own customized quad copter.
Now, Lorraine, what kind of custom design for the quad copter are you thinking about today?
  Well, I’m sort of a space nut, so I thought I would go with a UFO theme.  And I think you’ll see I’ve got this cool ray gun shape I’m going to use in a minute.
  Ooh, I like it.
As Lorraine starts building, you notice that everything is as easy as tap, then gaze, then tap again.
Now, voice commands are amazing in Holostudio because HoloLens understands precisely where she’s staring at.
  Glue touching.  OK, let’s get some color on this, Alex.  I think I’ll go with a bright yellow, put some of that here and there.
  Now, as Lorraine finishes building the first leg of the quad copter, she’s going to have to create three more.  And notice how easy it is for her to mirror and then copy it.
  Mirror.  OK, I’ve got two but I’m going to need four of these, Alex.  Let’s get it right — oh, right down there.  Good.  Glue.  That side. Good.  Copy.  OK, I’ve got four but it’s oriented wrong.  Rotate.  Movement.
  Holostudio is an entirely new way to work with 3-D content.  We call it build 3-D in 3-D.
Now, this is possible because holograms behave just like real-world objects.
  OK, I’m going to get a few more pieces that I want for my project.  Let’s see, go with this one first.  Put that there.  I think I’ll get this dome piece.  And I think I’m going to need a decoration for later.  Put that there.  OK, it’s UFO time.  Let’s get this right on top.  Oh, too low.  Resize.
  Holostudio is simple, yet powerful tools make it easy for anyone to create 3-D objects in just minutes.
  OK, let’s get that bright yellow again.  Here we go for this piece.
  I like where you’re going with this, Lorraine.  Why don’t we show them the Magnet tool?
  OK.  Magnet.  Let’s put it right there.  OK, I’ll use that tool again for my decoration.  I think I’m going to want a few of these.  Copy.  Maybe one over here.   Oh, not way over there.  Copy.  Good.  I think one more would look nice.  Right.  Good.  Glue touching.  Rotate.
What do you think, Alex?
  I’m getting a good Area 51 vibe.  I would totally fly that.
Now, holograms are like print preview for 3-D printing.  Now, wouldn’t it be amazing if we could take Lorraine’s creation and turn it into a real quad copter?
So we did.  This is a 3-D print we made earlier of Lorraine’s creation and Lorraine’s quad copter.  This was made entirely in Holostudio.
What do think, Lorraine?  Shall we take it for a spin?
  Do it.
  So much fun.  Thank you.
  Thank you, Alex.
  I hope you enjoyed this glimpse of Holostudio, a fast and simple workshop for creating your very own holograms.
By now you might be wondering, where has all this creation, where has all this experimentation been taking place?  We’ve worked on this program for years.  And as you heard earlier today, we’re not exactly known for having a good track record for keeping secrets.
Ironically, our Windows Holographic Laboratories are located directly below this room.  We’ve been hiding in plain sight, out of all places, in the Microsoft Visitor Center.
In this top secret space only a select group of visionaries, leading scientists and creators have worked.
In that very secret space we’ve had the great honor to partner with one of the most innovative organizations in history, an organization that’s accustomed to reaching for the stars, an organization that literally takes on moonshots.
So let me leave you with a sneak peak at how holographic computing, enabled by Windows 10, will fundamentally change how they think about exploration, discovery, and collaboration.
Thank you very much.  
  Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome Satya Nadella.  
  What an incredible moment, just amazing technology.  These are the kinds of magical moments that we live for.  Our industry’s progress is punctuated by moments of category creation.  Windows 10 and holographic computing is one such moment.
What you just saw in terms of the experiences, many of you in the room here are going to experience more this afternoon.  You’re going to play “Minecraft.”  You’re going to be able to see Skype in a completely new way.  They’re just going to be mind-blowing experiences.
Today is a big day, a big day for Windows, a big day for what it means to our customers, to our partners and to Microsoft.  It is about Windows and our innovation going forward.  It is about new categories, new experiences, and most of all about new opportunities.
It is also about our ambition and aspiration for Windows, and its impact in the world.  The fact that there are 1.5 billion users of Windows is incredible and humbling.  It’s a responsibility that none of us at Microsoft take lightly.
But we have bigger hopes, higher aspirations for Windows.  We want to move from people needing Windows to choosing Windows to loving Windows.  That is our bold goal with Windows.
I’ve talked in the past about Microsoft’s mission being centered around empowering every individual and organization on the planet to be able to do more and achieve more.
I’ve also talked about how we’re going to go after that mission by focusing on things that we as a company can uniquely do and contribute, being the platform and productivity company in a mobile-first, cloud-first world, by doing excellent and world-class work when it comes to gaming experiences.  Those are the strategies that are going to help us realize our mission.
And Windows 10 is core to all of that.  It’s central to all of that.  Windows 10 is built for a world where everything or nearly everything, both at home and at work, is digitally mediated, where you want to be able to interact with your computing environment in the most natural of ways, from speech to touch to ink and now, of course, gaze and holographic output.
Windows 10 is built for a world where there are going to be more devices on the planet than people.  That means the mobility of the experience is what matters, not the mobility of the device.
Windows 10 is built for a world where not only are you consuming lots of data and content, but you are generating lots of data about yourself, about your environment, and you want to be able to reason over all of that in a trusted way so that you can enhance the very experiences across devices.
Windows 10 ushers in an era of more personal computing in a mobile-first, cloud-first world.
You saw the experiences throughout the day.  It’s not just a checklist of features, it’s that design sensibility that allows us to put the more personal into computing and build things that center around you.
You see that in the way we’ve approached Cortana and how it knows you on all your devices and helps you proactively, how our “Spartan” browser will enable you to browse the Web and annotate the Web and share the Web, how Surface Hub takes something like joining a meeting and makes it easy and really brings the power of the team together in a meeting.
The first time I had a chance to see HoloLens and experience what a NASA scientist can do in terms of moving the Rover and then being able to walk onto Mars was nothing short of surreal.  These are the experiences that make Windows 10 that more personal computing environment that people are going to love.
I want to talk about three specific strategy points around Windows.  First, I want to talk about Windows as a service, I want to talk about Windows and mobility because that I know is top of mind for many of you, and I want to talk about how does Windows and our cross-platform strategy come together.
When it comes to Windows as a service, it’s a pretty profound change.  It’s not just the simple mechanics, although there are big changes in terms of our development methodology, our deployment policy, the servicing.  It’s much more fundamental than that.  For us it is about aligning our goals of success for Windows with customers and their experience and engagement with Windows.  That’s what Windows as a service means.
For customers they’re going to get a continuous stream of innovation, not only a continuous stream of innovation but also the assurance that their Windows devices are secure and trusted.
For developers it creates the broadest opportunity to target.
For our partners, hardware and silicon partners, they can, coincident with our software innovation, drive hardware innovation.
And lastly, for Microsoft, as I said, it allows us to think of success, measure our success and our progress in a way that is aligned with customers and their engagement.  We want people to love Windows on a daily basis.
Let’s talk about Windows and mobility.
Throughout today you saw an explicit focus on mobility of experiences.  That’s our worldview.  In the full arc of time when we talk about mobility, it is not about the mobility of any single device, but it is the mobility of the experiences across devices.  That is what we are focused on.
We are building into Windows the experiences from productivity to gaming, how Spartan and the browser comes together, how Xbox Live comes together, to enable that seamless crossover across devices as you move around at home and at work.
We also have unified our developer platform.  The Universal Application Platform is what now runs across the phone, the PC, and the TV — and, of course, now new categories such as holographic.
And the fact that we have unified the application platform means developers can write applications that can target the widest set of Windows devices.
We have a unified store that creates a unified way for you to monetize as a developer.  And we believe that’s what’s going to make us attractive for developers to write universal applications.
And lastly, we absolutely are committed to bringing a great lineup of hardware.  You saw some of the hardware innovation that’s driving and stimulating demand with our Surface Hub and what we’re doing with HoloLens.
And you can be assured that we will do some fantastic work from the flagship phone to the affordable smartphone, and have a full lineup of phones that will be available with Windows 10.
Let me talk a little bit about our cross-platform approach.
Simply put, Windows is the best place, it’s the home for the very best Microsoft experiences.  We are going to have services everywhere, but when it comes to Windows, we are not bolting on apps, we are seamlessly harmonizing our experiences.  The way Cortana is built-in, the way Microsoft Account and Azure Active Directory from an ID perspective are built into Windows, how OneDrive and the sync framework are built in, how Skype and Outlook are built-in, how Xbox Live is built-in, this is just built as part of Windows as a native experience where the scaffolding of the shell, as well as the applications, come together in the most seamless, delightful, personal way for users.
That’s what we are doing with Windows.
We absolutely are going to have our services and their application end points everywhere.  But we absolutely believe that Windows is home for the very best of Microsoft experiences.
There’s nothing subtle about this strategy.  It’s a practical approach which is customer-first.  We want to give ourselves the best opportunity to serve our customers everywhere, and give ourselves the best chance of helping customers find Windows as their home.  That’s what we plan to do.
Let me close out by talking about my own personal experience of Windows.  Windows touches all of us at work and at home.  And for us who are perhaps close to this, each day we’re reminded of the enormity of the responsibility that we have as we move the innovation of Windows forward.
And to me over the last year, there was this opportunity I had to go visit a school in the Bronx and see how the students there are using PCs to open up a completely new world for themselves, exploring, making things, learning to code.
This summer, I was in an ICU room with my son as he was recovering from a surgery, and I saw all of these Windows Embedded devices and Windows PCs and tablets being used by the nursing staff and the doctors to take care of them.  There cannot be anything more personal than that.
Over the holidays I had a chance to see an 11-year old girl unbox a Lumia 535, which was their very first computing device for the family, and get herself set up on Microsoft Account and all of these services and download Candy Crush and Skype and teach her parents about what it means to use those things.  And this was in India.  And that experience, the delight in that little girl’s eyes left an undeniable impression on me.
Those are the moments of true inspiration for me.  And I know that that’s what everyone feels.  What you saw from Terry to Joe, Phil, Hayete, Alex, and everyone else, that’s the passion that drives us.
Windows, unlike any other product at Microsoft, does bring all teams together to build Windows.  And so we are really looking forward to how our Windows Insiders use the new builds of Windows, the new flights of Windows, and the feedback from that is very important.  This is one of the most collaborative releases of Windows and we’re looking forward do that feedback cycle.  We want to make Windows 10 the most loved release of Windows.
Thank you very, very much.  Let me have Terry Myerson come back onstage.  Thank you.  
  Thanks, Satya.
Today, we expanded our device family, we showed you some incredible new Windows experiences, and we shared our aspiration to upgrade every Windows device to Windows 10.
For those of you here with us this afternoon, you’re going to get to see Windows 10 close up on phones, PCs, tablets, the Internet of Things, Xbox, and you’re going to be some of the first ever to experience holographic Skype, holographic “Minecraft,” Holostudio, and NASA’s application to help their scientists walk on Mars.
In the next few months we’re going to shift our focus to focusing on our hardware and software partners that are building great applications and devices with Windows 10.  We have our Game Developers Conference.  We have Mobile World Congress in Spain.  We have WinHEC in China.  This all culminates at our Microsoft Build Conference in April where we will be discussing innovation across the entire Windows 10 platform, including holograms and how Windows the service makes Windows 10 the best Windows development platform ever.  This is a conference you’re not going to want to miss.
And then later this year, we will launch Windows 10, connecting with our customers through Windows the service, and there will be some great new hardware from Microsoft and our hardware partners, including, yes, flagship Windows Phones.
I think you’d all agree today really is a milestone in the history of Windows.  I’m proud of the work the team has done.  Windows 10 will forge a new relationship between us and our customers, consumers, developers and the enterprise.
Thank you for joining us today to discuss the next generation of Windows, Windows 10.
  Good morning.  It’s a real pleasure and a privilege to be at Convergence, be in Atlanta.  For me it’s coming back home.  I think it was eight years ago the last time I was at Convergence with Doug Burgum and the team there, and it’s awesome to be back.
In the last eight years a lot has happened.  First, I think the importance of Convergence for Microsoft has grown.  It’s become this premier business event.  We have over 12,000 business decision-makers representing every industry, 70-plus countries.  We hold two Convergence conferences, one in North America, one in Europe.  And it’s fantastic to see even the North America Conference is truly becoming a global conference.
The second thing that’s happened in the last eight years is your drive to transform businesses is really setting the technology agenda.  It’s your needs, your passion for what you want to achieve in your business that is fundamentally changing even how we think about technology.  That role of the business decision-maker is what we really want to celebrate in this conference.  That’s the conversation, that’s the dialogue that we want to have.
You could say that this notion of business transformation driving business systems as well as technology evolution is really not new, because from the very dawn of computing you can think about the mainframes and how they helped us automate the accounting and finance department, and really help scale businesses.  We then went into the stage of minicomputers, which really brought about manufacturing resource planning as well as MRC2, where you were able to even bring the demand signal and really start to democratizing how manufacturing could get automated.
But the real power of business systems came to the fore in the client server era.  This is the era in which computing became much more ubiquitous inside of the enterprise, and coincident with it we were able to build these enterprise resource planning systems that automated everything inside of the organization.  In other words, it digitized your HR, finance, accounting, manufacturing, and brought what was before siloed together into one digital fabric helping us do enterprise planning, doing stuff like supply chain management, and really brought about the next level of efficiency inside of the enterprise.
We then went on to build on top of that and digitize, first through the help of the Web, and then now with mobile, our interactions, in particular with customers and partners.  So we were able to extend far beyond the enterprise boundary to be able to take every interaction that we have and really digitize that, and then to be able to reason over all of that digital information.
And I think we are at the dawn of a new generation of business systems.  With the advent of unlimited computing capacity in the cloud as well as new rich data platforms that have the ability in real time to reason over data, we now can build these systems of intelligence.  Now these systems of intelligence don’t sit in isolation.  They, in fact, build on the entire digital fabric that we have with the systems of record and systems of engagement, and create one feedback loop.
So this feedback loop helps us take all of the digital information we have and make it much more real-time in terms of how we can drive both performance and efficiency.  So this is going from having these systems which are very, very useful unto themselves, but are somewhat static, and converting them into learning systems where everything that you have invested in, in terms of building out these systems of engagement and systems of record, become intelligent.
So that’s what we want to talk about and I want to talk about this morning.  And I want to start first by reflecting on Microsoft’s identity in all of this, because I think that’s very, very important.  We, as a technology provider and a business systems and as solutions provider, are very focused on one single thing: it is about empowering you as individuals and organizations across every vertical, across every size of business in any part of the world to be able to drive your agenda and achieve more and do things that you want to do with your business.  That’s our identity.
We are not about being in this business because we have an ad business on the side, or we are not in the business of purely building devices.  We are in the empowerment business.  We are in the business of enabling businesses in particular to be able to drive their transformations through the power of digital technology.
And to that end there are three bold ambitions that we have.  The first one is about creating this new era of more personal computing.  You can imagine now this ubiquitous computing fabric that surrounds us.  We have sensors in rooms.  We have large screens.  We have our PCs.  We have our tablets, smartphone.  We also have these new devices like the holographic computing devices.
And the idea is to create this more natural interface where you can speak to it, you can in fact drive the computer with vision, and holographic output, and this natural way of interacting as well as having the notion of moving these experiences, because you will have a variety of devices in your life.  In any given day you’re interacting and moving between devices.  So when we think about mobile-first for us we want to build experiences that are about the mobility of the experience, not the mobility of the device.
We also want to build into the core of this more personal computing fabric thrust, because increasingly the issue of our time is going to be privacy and how you as the end user, you as the organization is in control of what data you share, how that data is being used.  So for us Windows 10 marks a huge milestone on this journey of more personal computing where it will span with one consistent experience for users, developers, and IT administrators from across Internet of Things to these holographic computers.
The second big ambition for us is about the reinvention of productivity and business process.  At this conference we will talk a lot about this.  In fact, the intersection between productivity and communication and collaboration and business process is where I think the most interesting things happen inside of our organization.  If you think about your customer interactions, if you think about marketing, you think about HR, it is really about the collaboration, communication that happens out of band from a system of record, or system of engagement and brings it together is where we want to do the automation.  So we’ll talk about how Office 365 and Dynamics in particular come together to enable that new way of working, the new workflows of the enterprise.
And then the last ambition that I want to talk about is building the intelligent cloud.  We want to have the richness of the cloud infrastructure that accommodates for the complexities and the diversity of the different industry.  We’re at the very, very beginning of this cloud era and as you can imagine we are in many industries represented here, which will have different regulatory regimes, parts of the globe represented here, which will all have different digital sovereignty needs.  And so we want to build that most comprehensive cloud infrastructure, support hybrid computing in its purest form so that it provides the flexibility to you.  And then build out a rich data platform on top of it so that you can start building these new systems of intelligence that drive your business transformation.
So talking about these systems of intelligence, I want to actually walk through what it means in practical terms by thinking about empowerment of individuals, organizations, and industries, starting with the empowerment of people, because I think whenever you think about any change now it starts, especially any change that’s driven by technology, it starts with us as individuals getting comfortable with these new forms of technology and how we’re using it in our daily lives.
For me now this morning even when I got up I reached out to my smartphone and I had Cortana, which is our intelligent agent, think of it as a system of intelligence that knows everything about me, my schedule, my preferences, I give it — in fact, there is this notion of a notebook that powers Cortana that I can go enter notes about my interests, my places, my contacts, my reminders, and it learns constantly from that and helps me through my day.  It will tell me how much time I had for my workout, when should I leave to get to this conference center, all of that proactively.  So it’s an intelligent agent that’s something that I’m interacting with on a constant basis.
I also am wearing this Microsoft Band, and the interesting thing about the Band is that it’s actually a sensor framework on my wrist.  It has sensors for your heart rate tracking, GPS, it has the ability to do UV light sensing, a lot of different sensors, which are all built for this low-energy device that are collecting data.  And all that data is being moved to the cloud, because devices will come and go; the most interesting thing is the data that’s being collected, and in my case I go up to this Microsoft Health site once a week or so and just track my data.  And the most interesting thing is I’ll continue to build this data over the years and we can even have this data, in fact, be part of my electronic medical record by taking it to HealthVault and so that I can start sharing it with the doctors and other medical providers.  And really having this system of record, effectively, but not only a system of record for my own personal well-being and health, but also the ability to share it with other providers, also to be able to have the research community add additional insights on my data, that’s the real power in time that we are building out, which is going to individually empower us.
In fact, one of the fun things here is I get to sort of have all of the statistics, a bit of business vanity right now, but over time it becomes even more useful.  And for now I can track the number of steps I take, the calories I burn, the workouts, the amount of sleep, and it’s awesome to have that.  But, one of the other things is you can compare yourself and here you have, in fact, this is the data for the 99th percentile of users using Microsoft Band.  Obviously I’m not in the 99th percentile, and I have a long way to go before I ever can get there and I don’t definitely work out three hours and nine minutes a day.  But, I thought, why not introduce someone who potentially belongs to that 99th percentile?
So please help me welcome on stage Russell Wilson from the Seattle Seahawks. 
  How are you doing, buddy?
How is everybody doing?  Now, this is a different Hawks stadium than I’m used to.  But, to be here with you guys is a true honor.  I’m excited to be here.  I would say “go Hawks.”  I don’t know if you guys are Seahawks fans here.   Atlanta Hawks fans.  But either way, both are great.
  That’s awesome.  Thank you so much for being here, Russell.
So I thought you’re a big user of technology in your life.  We were talking even backstage about some of the things that you do with OneNote.  Why don’t you just give us a little bit of a flavor for how you use tech?
  Yes.  So OneNote is big in my life.  I use it all the time for my notes.  Every week, let’s say we’re playing the Atlanta Falcons week one, and we’re playing the 49ers week two.  Every year — my dad passed away four years ago, so one of the things I did more in my childhood was take more notes, journal more and all that.  So the past three years I’ve been doing that.  One day, if I ever have kids, that’s something I want to do.  I want to save each year, I want to journal each year.
So my rookie year, three years ago, 2012, I took notes, handwritten notes.  And last year, in 2013, I started using the Surface a little bit more. And that was more through e-mails and just saving stuff.  But then this past year, I saved everything on OneNote.  So week one, let’s say we played the Atlanta Falcons, I think we played the Packers, but let’s say we play the Atlanta Falcons for 2015.
What I will do is, Monday through Monday I’ll take notes.  So I’ll take notes on all the things I study, every time Coach Carroll gets up there, every time a player gets up there, every time I speak I try to remember what I said, or any emotion I’m feeling that week I’ll write down.
And then I’ll do that for week one, and then week two, and the whole season.  And I think that will be something cool to give my kids one day and so that’s special to me.
  And the other thing, of course, is you’re now — obviously you’re a professional football player, and the NFL is going through a lot of change with technology.  So tell us a little bit about how tech is impacting you even on the field and off the field in your profession?
  The biggest way it’s helping us, the Surface, Microsoft and NFL partnered up, and that’s the coolest way on the actual field.  During a game, and I could use the strategy, you guys can see that picture potentially here in a little bit.  One of the things that I get to do is on the sidelines, I get to zoom in on certain players, zoom in on certain formations and figure out what a team is trying to do on third down, or what they’ve done every time on third down in the red zone.  So it’s good for me.
I think it’s not just for quarterbacks, though.  Our offensive linemen can do it, our defensive backs, everybody.  So it’s really important for me, but also throughout the week and throughout the season, you can look at Excel, use Excel.  We use Excel all the time for the Seattle Seahawks, and I use it all the time personally.  So we can figure out what teams try to do specifically on certain situations.  And that’s the biggest thing.  What type of player he is?  Can he catch this ball?  Is it a good defender on this play?
So all those things are relative.  But on a personal level, the other biggest way that I use on a personal level my Surface and all that, I use Skype all the time.  So I get Skype with my niece.  She’s three years old.  So that’s one of the things I get to do and it means a lot to me, and I stay connected to my family even though I’m far away all the time.
  Thanks, fantastic.  Thank you so much for coming and sharing with us.
  Thank you for having me.
  It’s a real pleasure.
  Thank you guys.  Go Hawks.
  Now that was real fun.  I mean, to have Russell describe how he, himself, is a big user of technology, and I think it just shows how now every walk of life and every industry and every activity increasingly is taking advantage of this digitization of nearly everything.  And that’s when the power of what we do and what you are capable of doing with these technologies is brought home.
Let’s move on to talk a little bit about empowering organizations.  In fact, for me this is a place where what I do at Microsoft has drastically changed.  How I spend my time on a daily basis, what issues do I pay attention to has perhaps gone through a sea change even in the last 12 months.
So I want to show you a couple of tools and services that I use on a daily basis, in fact multiple times a day.  The first service that I want to talk about is Delve.  This is part of Office 365.  It’s just this service that really helps take all of the work that is happening inside of the organization and bring it to life, very much like how, for example, if you want to find out anything that’s happening in your friend’s life, you may go to the Facebook newsfeed; think of this as your work newsfeed.
So I come in in the morning, log on to Delve, check it, in fact, on the phone many times.  And what I have here is all the artifacts of work that are lighting up on this page based on my interests.  So it’s reasoning through everything that’s happening in terms of the presentations being created or documents being created, or shared, based on my interests, because it knows of the things that are topical interest to me, and it really highlights them.
For example, in this case I have someone talking about opportunities in machine learning.  Stephen Elop, who leads our wearable and device team, is talking about tech trends in wearable computing.  Judson is working on some North American customer survey.  The HoloLens API review, as you can imagine our Developer Conference is coming up, and it’s very important for us to get these API reviews done in time.  So these are just artifacts of work that are of interest to me, and the system knows that these are the most topical and relevant for me today.
Now, as you can notice, this is not an org chart.  This is one of those most empowering things for an organization, where everyone can transparently look at the information, discover information inside of an organization, without having the hierarchies of the organization get in the way.  In fact, I can even go in and look at documents that are shared with me, or pieces of documents and presentations shared with me.  In fact, I see that Kirill has shared with me a Russian poetry recommendation.  He knows that I’m into poetry and one of these days I’ll brush up on my Pushkin.  I have things like Skype for Business Feedback, which is a big, in fact, initiative for us.  We’ll talk about it even at this conference.  The Surface top customer feedback, this is an exciting enterprise — I like to describe it as the enterprise TV that you will hear even more at this conference.  So there’s a lot of this data.
Again, think about the empowerment that anyone of the 100,000 people at Microsoft who has some customer insight are putting it into this or can share it with me.  In fact, they can even add this to boards.  Very much like Pinterest, you can create boards.  And one of my favorite boards to go to is this Voice of the Customer Board, where I can get to see what anyone inside of Microsoft has in terms of insights around customers.  So you see, again, that North American Survey, a retail survey, feedback on universal design, something that I’m very, very passionate about.  Jenny, in fact, leads our accessibility program, so she’s working on how do we make things like Windows 10 and Office much more of a universal design based effort so that it’s accessible to everyone.
So this gives me an ability and, more importantly, it empowers everyone inside of Microsoft to take the data that they have and then turn that over into insights, and more importantly share it across the organization.
I can also pivot by people.  So I have Joseph here, who leads our machine learning practice, and machine learning is something that you’ll hear a lot about in this conference because this is an emerging technology that I believe fundamentally is going to change a lot of business processes.  And so one of the key areas that we’re still working through is how is this being used in a lot of the pilot programs with customers.  So this is the opportunity for machine learning in the cloud.
I have Yammer right here.  So what I can do is, in fact, continue a conversation that I’m having with Joseph and others on that team about the potential for machine learning and business process, and I can go ahead and type what I want here and continue our conversation.
So it shows us all a new way for how we can discover information, communicate, make connections, and really transform the organization in terms of the transparency and the empowerment it creates.  So that’s a quick flavor for Delve.
The other tool that’s changed how I work is Power BI.  Now this is another tool which creates a dashboard, and you can say, hey, there have been dashboards that have come before, and I use dashboards.  But the real breakthrough with Power BI is that we now have made it very simple for any one of you who is a business decision-maker to create your own very personalized dashboard.
Because one of the things for us inside of Microsoft that is very important to every individual, every engineer, and every salesperson, is to be in touch with the leading indicators of success.  Because, look, we all celebrate far too much the lagging indicators of success like revenue, and net operating income and so on, because that’s sort of an outcome of a lot of great work that happened up front.  And so for us the key is usage, your usage of our products on a daily basis is the most important signal to our frontline sales individual, as well as our engineer.
So what we want to track, for example, is what is — in fact, we have these two metrics, the monthly active usage, or MAU, and daily active usage, which is — and the ratio between daily to monthly is perhaps the most important metric, because that shows the intensity of usage.  So for every service inside of Microsoft, from Office 365 to Azure, we are tracking constantly how are people using it.
Now, for example, Windows 10, obviously we are getting close to the end game here and we are very interested to see how people are using Windows 10.  We have the insider program, we have around 3 million users using Windows 10 already, giving us constant feedback.  In fact, we’ve built right into the product this Net Promoter capability.
So the likelihood that anyone would be a recommender of Windows 10, and you can see that 61 percent of the people currently using it want to be really promoters and advocates of Windows 10.  And I also have this bubble chart here which shows me that the more services that you use the more likely it is that you perhaps are going to promote, because it goes up all the way to 90 percent if you’re using 14 services.  And, in fact, Cortana is one of the features that is very important.  So when I click on, if you’re a Cortana user and you see that it’s gone from 61 to 69 percent Net Promoter score.
Now, the real idea in a world of big data is to recognize these small patterns and insights and then to act on it.  The fact that I was able to go take a look at this and say, wow, there is a real correlation between services and in particular Cortana and their likelihood to promote is the kind of insight that can be used by me and by the engineers working on Windows 10 to fundamentally start driving changes, to be able to add new capabilities that have more likelihood of success in the marketplace.  That ability to drive in real time using data, product outcomes in our case, is perhaps one of the most transformative things that happens up and down Microsoft and that’s sort of very, very powerful.
So that gives you a little bit of a quick flavor for how I personally use some of these services and I would really encourage each of you to have a — to go give these services a shot, because we really built this so that business decision-makers like yourself can take these tools and turn them into very powerful empowerment instruments throughout the organization.  And so I’m really pleased to announce the global availability of Power BI, which is going to be available for all of you to be able to use, as well as Delve, today.  And so these are two services that I believe can be fundamental to how you get transformation and transparency within your organizations.  
So I want to move to the last part of my talk this morning to talk a little bit about empowering of industries.  When we think about any industry, it can be manufacturing, retail, healthcare, financial services, insurance; each one of these industries is being transformed today, because of what you’re digitizing inside of your industry.  The core business processes, I mean take insurance in particular and how it’s being changed by the ability to price things based on tracking habits of the insured agent.  Manufacturing, everything in manufacturing now is tracked in real time so that you can essentially build a SaaS service that really goes with the things that you built.
Perhaps the most horizontal way to understand the transformation that is pervasive across all the various industries is what we call the Internet of Things.  And when we think about Internet of Things it starts, obviously, with whatever it is that you make, any service that you provide, and connecting it up to the cloud.  In fact, we are going to have something like 26 billion Internet connected devices.  We talk a lot about a billion users of smart phones, or 300 million PCs sold a year, but think about it, there are going to be 26 billion general purpose compute devices, essentially, that are going to be there by 2019.
Now, the one thing that’s going to happen, because of this explosion of Internet-connected devices, is the explosion of data that will rendezvous with the cloud.  There’s going to be, in fact, data that’s going to get filtered right on the device, and there’s going to be some sample data that will be propagated back into the cloud.  So you’re going to have something like 44 zettabytes of data that’s going to be in the cloud.
Now, the most interesting thing starts to happen once you have all this data.  It is the transformation in the business model around these things.  What you are now going to start doing as the provider of that service, it could be insurance, it could be a manufacturer of a device, every one of these businesses now is going to become a software business, where you’re going to reason about all of this data.  You’re going to build applications.  You’re going to do things like advanced analytics and predictions.  You’re going to provide SaaS services that go along with your services and devices.
That transformation is what’s going to change the economics of your business, because the gross margin that was associated, perhaps with either the labor inside of the service, or the capital inside of the goods, is going to now change to become something like software margin.  So that transformation is what this entire evolution to these systems of intelligence is going to really bring in.
So to give you a bit more of a flavor for how this is going to play out across a variety of different industries, I wanted to invite up on stage Jeff, who is on our IoT team, to kind of give you a bit of a flavor for some of the various technologies and various industries and how they’re using it.
Jeff, how are you?
  Good morning, Satya.
Good morning everyone.    Thank you for having me.  So I want to take you through three different customer scenarios.  The first is AccuWeather.  AccuWeather is the world’s biggest weather company.  Their service is in over 200 countries, over 100 languages, and they’re over 50 years old.  They’ve built their software as a service on Azure, and it’s consuming several different types of technologies, such as Service Bus, Azure SQL, Machine Learning, and Stream Analytics, to name a few.
So I want to first start with showing you their consumer applications.  Here we have — I’m not sure if any of you are from Boston, but here we have our Boston weather report right now.  It’s got a very rich interactive experience that allows me to see all the kinds of data that I would expect in a personalized weather service.  I can see the current precipitation weather levels, the wind speeds.  I can also see different types of forecast information, whether it be daily, hourly, or even monthly.
But, now let’s take a look at their commercial offering.  Here I have the AccuWeather Enterprise Solution.  This solution is a dashboard built on Azure and you can see there’s a very rich collection of information presented to me here.
  So this is AccuWeather taking, obviously, the data that they have behind their consumer service, and converting it into a SaaS service so that other businesses, be it retail, manufacturing, can use weather data to automate their business processes.
  Exactly and a great example that I would highlight there is Lowes, here in the U.S., is using this very service to not only manage their inventory and their logistics, but also even their marketing campaigns, so a really interesting application of a software as a service.
So let’s take you through some of the highlights here.  Along the top you have this selection of severe weather warnings.  These are coming directly from AccuWeather service and you can see there’s a warning for lightning, tornado and wind, and those are provided by AccuWeather to every customer in a feed like that in the dashboard.  But, then here in the center I have a collection of personalized weather locations that can be customized for my role in the organization or even different types of people in the organization that need different types of filters and alerts to be set.
Now, speaking of alerts, let’s talk about how we can configure different types of alerts on the weather, because it’s not just about looking at a weather dashboard.  Here I have the ability to configure specific alerts for a location.  In this particular case we’ll pick Boston.  I can select the different types of alerts I want to set for that location and then on top of that I can also down here set conditions on that location’s alert.  So, for example, we might want to be made aware of if more than or equal to two inches of snow per hour falls in Boston.
So at this point we’re setting an alert for a specific location, but it doesn’t stop there.  What we can also do is we can set associated procedures to those alerts.  So if those conditions get —
  This is the automation of a business process that could get triggered based on some of the weather alerts.
  Exactly, yes.  So not just associating certain procedures, like contact the snow removal company, or notify my staff to clear the pedestrian walkways, think of this moving forward where AccuWeather will provide the ability to integrate this into organizations infrastructure, connecting heating and cooling, HVAC systems, lighting, all those kinds of things, to really automate the end-to-end process.
  That’s very cool.  So you are going to, in fact, hear from the CEO of AccuWeather, it’s an amazing story out of the passion of one individual from very early on that has helped build this great business.  So I think that’s a fantastic story that he’s going to personally have a chance to share with you and I’m excited about that.
  Great.  OK, let’s move on.
OK. So now I want to show you a little bit about a company called Marston’s. Marston’s is a U.K. pub and brewing company.  They make beer and while they’re primarily based in the United Kingdom with their pub locations, a big chain of pubs, their beer brands are known all over the world.  Here we have Microsoft Social Engagement, an application service built on top of Azure, and Marston’s is using this to actively listen to their customers, analyze the sentiment of those customers, and then directly engage with those customers.
So let’s take you through each of those steps here and show you how they’re using the platform.  Here I’m sitting at the home page of the Marston’s brand overview.  Now, if the brand manager is concerned about the brand he wants to see different types of things happening.  So in the top level here we have our sentiment overview, this is the kind of perception of conversation happening.  We’re analyzing that on the back end on Azure.  We have the locational insight of where the conversations are happening in the world.  That’s very interesting to certain people like marketing or logistics.  And then down here on the bottom we have the sources and the types of conversations that are happening, the authors, where they’re saying it, Facebook, Twitter, blog, et cetera, all these different types of social —
  Right, so this Social Engagement service is an example of one of these systems of intelligence where you’re able to reason over all the data around your brand and bring insights.
  Exactly.
Now, it’s not just about my entire brand.  It’s about the products inside my brand.  Here I’ve added an additional filter so I can specifically look at the Marston’s beer brand products.  You can see my locational insight is extremely interesting, because I’ve got all kinds of different conversations happening all over the world for a U.K. company.  And then I’ve got the same kind of things about the authors and the sources.  And then over here on the right we can actually begin to see the breakdown of the beer brands that they’re actually talking about.  So they’re mentioning Hobgoblin and Pedigree there, two of our flagship beers.
Now, I can keep going further, I can keep listening even in more detail.  So here I’m now down at the Hobgoblin beer brand, one of Marston’s beer products, and I can see a really interesting breakdown here of their sentiments.  It’s very positive.  The people that are talking about Hobgoblin are extremely positive about it.
But, wow, Satya, look at the breakdown of their conversation.
  They’re talking about it everywhere.
  It’s everywhere.  This product is all over the place.  So it’s really great to see, great positive energy about the marketing of our beer there.
Let’s go take a look at Pedigree, because that was the other flagship brand that I mentioned.  Now, while we see the conversation here is still extremely positive, very happy about the product when they are talking about it, we can see here that the locational information is far different, a lot lower volume, and far more distributed out there.  So we might want to do something about that.
  Now that you have that insight how are you going to take action on that?
  Exactly.
So as a brand manager I might want to create some kind of a marketing campaign.  So to generate some excitement I’ve created, using Microsoft’s Dynamics Marketing product, a campaign to bring one of your friends into a Marston’s pub and get a free beer.
  And that’s the key, to be able to take these systems of engagement that you have, like Dynamics CRM, and then marry it with something like the social engagement, which is really a system of intelligence, but really the bringing together of these two is what drives the next level of transformation.
  Exactly.  So let’s show them how we can engage on that using this information.
So here’s my campaign landing page; I’ll be directing people to go here and fill out their information.  That will give them a voucher to head into one of our local pubs and get a free beer for their friend.  So if I jump back over here I can bring out the right side, this is my summary of posts about Pedigree.  This is a summary of all the conversations on Twitter and Facebook, and all those kinds of locations people were mentioning our brand.  And I can directly interact with these people.  So I can simply hit reply on this tweet.  I can hit a paste in there and that’s going to drop my little note to that person bring a friend, get a Pedigree and the link to the URL to go and redeem that voucher.
  That’s great.
  So a great closing the loop there, showing you how Marston’s is using the Social Engagement application service from Azure to actively listen, analyze those conversations, and then directly engage with them with additional information.
  That’s fantastic.
  OK.  So we’ve talked a little bit about weather data and a little bit about social data.  Now why don’t we focus for a moment on an industrial automation company who is using data in a different way?
Rockwell Automation is an established company.  They have been around for over 100 years, and they have been known to make very advanced and complicated system controllers and drives and sensors and actuators.  And they’re all over the world.  Rockwell Automation is based in several major verticals.  And to name a few, they have a presence in automotive, and food and beverage, and oil and gas, and even places like power generation.  Their stuff is everywhere.
So here I’m looking at their Azure-powered portal, which is connected to the Azure IRC Services.  This is a summary of a collection of technologies being used by Rockwell Automation.  It’s using things like stream analytics and service bus as well as the machine learning to bring to me a collection of data about their assets their customers have purchased.
  But I mean it’s a SaaS server, it’s a software service that they have built, like any software company would build, for their industrial things that are everywhere in the field.
  Exactly.  And they’re using this dashboard to monitor several things, highly complex assets, but they’re using this to measure health and performance and customer satisfaction, all these kinds of things.  So you can see here a really rich dashboard showing me the different types of things they’re using measuring for extraction and refining, logistics, and there is even presence in retail.
Now for the purposes of this portion of the demo, I’m going to focus on their extraction locations, which is all their mines and wells.  Now, these are all over the country, even offshore in the ocean spaces.  And you can see here I’ve got an ability to drive in and see different types of information about those locations.  So I can circle in there and drive even further into a specific location.
But at this level I’m presented with the high-level summary of locations and the alerts that might be presented there to me.  Now I want to pause here because I want to highlight something that’s a transformational shift for Rockwell Automation.  Up until a couple of years ago, none of this information was available.  Rockwell Automation was using handwritten index cards that were left at the transfer points out in the middle of maybe say Texas, and those transfer cards, those information pieces of collateral were being picked up every several months.
So it was really quite a latent process.  It wasn’t accurate.  And at this level, where we see a schematic diagram of a deeply connected asset, they weren’t getting the real-time information about the performance and the health and even the quality of the products that they were delivering off of that location.
So you can see here I’ve got a connected schematic here.  You can see all the green locations on that asset are where that transfer point is being monitored.  So these are sensors, pumps and drives that Rockwell Automation is monitoring on behalf of their customers.
  And this is all real-time, so you are able to now monitor in real-time, in fact do things like anomaly detection because of the ability to process that stream in real-time.
  That’s correct.  Exactly.  Real-time.  We’re looking at things like barrel count, volume outputs, product quality, and even things like temperature.  Now you can see I’ve actually got an alert happening here.  So I’m just going to drive on that for a moment.  I’m going to select that fan there, which is inside of the schematic, and it brings in to me an additional set of information about that specific sensor inside of the asset.
Now the fly-in page shows me a wealth of information that simply was never available before.  Here on the top I have the air filter summary, the part numbers, when it was last replaced or serviced, as well as some of the current runtime temperatures, the current versus desired temperature and the deltas between that.
Now I would like to draw your attention to a couple of the graphs we see here on the right side.  The first is that mean temperature graph.  Now this is provided to us by Azure’s Stream Analytics Service.  We have a set of rules running against the sensor, and the yellow line represents where they would desire that sensor’s temperature to be, the red line is showing where it’s actually performing right now.  You can see we’re above where we would expect to be.
Now the bottom graph is where I also want to draw your attention.  This is a summary of information provided by machine learning. This is allowing us to understand in the gray bar there where we are today, and to the left of that graph, that’s past history, that’s historical data about how the temperature was operating versus —
  It helps you detect these anomalies.
  Exactly, yes. Now to the right of that gray line, that’s where machine learning is using algorithmic calculations to tell us what it predicts will happen next.  And you can see here on the right we have a vertical yellow line.  That’s the actual next scheduled service maintenance trip out to that location.  And machine learning is suggesting to us here that we may, in fact, have a critical event before we have a chance to get back out there.
  That’s great.
  Now because of the fact that it’s so deeply connected, we can get really proactive here.  So I can create a ticket.  This is going to reach out to my CRM system and avoid that outage and disruption.
  And in this case, you just saw Rockwell build, again, a software service for their devices and then connect it with a system like CRM and automate now both their system of engagement and their own ability to transform their business by doing these advanced analytics and predictions.
  Exactly.  So I’ve shown you three examples today.  I’ve shown you how an organization is empowering their individuals and organizations with weather data.  We also showed you how an organization is transforming their business relationships with their customers through social listening.  And then I’ve just shown you an example of an industrial automation scenario where we’re providing deeply connected assets and real-time performance monitoring.
  Fantastic.
  Thank you.
  Thank you very, very much.  
So that shows you how every industry is now a software industry where they are building these systems of intelligence, and you all will be transforming these business processes because you are digitizing information that was not digitized before, and more in particular adding value to that by doing things like these machine learning models, which do things like advanced analytics.
And so I’m really pleased to announce the coming together of all of these technologies from ability to connect data up onto the cloud; process them using the Stream Analytics Services; do these sophisticated machine learning models using Azure ML into one comprehensive suite called Azure IoT Suite, which will become that core infrastructure for you to be able to build out these SaaS services like the examples you saw.  So we’re, again, very, very pleased to bring the power of the Azure cloud and the data platform together so that you can drive the transformation of your business going forward.
So I wanted to close out by talking about perhaps the most important aspect that’s going to drive the business transformations going into the future.  We talked about how empowering individuals and organizations and industries is going to fundamentally change our business.  But perhaps the most salient point of this is that empowerment, how do we make sure that the ability to have access to that data, the ability to act on the insight, the flow of patterns that we as humans recognize in data, the real power comes from our ability to exercise that insight in terms of action we take.
And this is where I think we as leaders of our businesses get to do the most transformative thing, which is to first make sure that everyone inside of the organization has the tools, has the capability to be able to gain these insights and then we empower them to act on those insights.  This data culture is very much the journey that Microsoft itself is on.
We as a business building software solutions, software platforms, and devices now, are constantly learning how are we using data to make better decisions.  But most importantly, how are we driving that data to every individual inside of the organization so that they can gain those insights and take that action on their own.  That level of transparency, that level of transformation inside of the organization is really what’s going to drive our journey together.
Thank you so very much for this morning, and I wanted to introduce Kirill Tatarinov to take over and then talk more about the next level of transformation with productivity tools.  Thank you very, very much.
Kirill.
  All right, good morning!  Hello!  It’s nice to be here at Build with all of you.
So you got a chance to look at how the universal Windows platform is going to enable all of you and tons of other developers to build great, compelling apps.  And what I’m here to do, as Terry said, is to talk about how we’re going to enhance the Windows user experience so that end users on lots and lots of devices, but in particular I’m going to focus on the PC, how end users will be able to discover and engage with all of the apps that you and we write.
We know that great technology for building apps is just part of the story.  You need users to engage with them.  So I want to show you some of the work we’re doing that’s going to make that possible.  And then I’m going to wrap up with one more cool demo of how the universal Windows platform enables new devices and new kinds of actions on devices.  So let me just jump right in and get started.
So I have here a very recent build of Windows 10 for the PC, and I’m going to begin on the Start menu.  And I want to show you some of the work we’ve been doing to continue to tweak the design and improve the visuals and the interaction.
So you’ll see what I’ve got here we think is pretty close to what we expect to have when we’re done, although, of course, we’re going to continue to take feedback from our Insiders.
You’ll notice there’s new beautiful Live Tile animations that help draw people’s attention to the apps and the app data for the things that they’ve pinned.
You’ll notice we’ve cleaned the layout up a bit.
For those of you Insiders who kind of surprised us with your enthusiasm for Windows 7’s aero glass, you’ll notice the translucency here is the blur effect that you saw in Windows 7.  So we’re trying to bring some of that feel back.
We’ve got the most-used apps here.  We’re putting File Explorer, Settings, Power, All Apps at the bottom.
We’re bringing jump lists back in.  So you can see here’s File Explorer with jump lists.  And this will work for other apps as well.    Thank you.
But the thing I want to sort of focus on a little bit is this space right here, where in this case I haven’t installed an app for a little while.  So the system is going to give a smart suggestion for an app in the store that is going to be one that’s suitable for me.
As I’m using my PC, on the client we know which apps you’re launching and which apps you’re installing, and so we’re able to communicate with the store and bring down suggestions that are personalized for you to help users learn about great new apps that are available for them to try out on their PC.
And as time goes by, we reuse that space in a smart way to help script the user’s discovery of apps first, but then their engagement later.  So if I’ve installed an app, as you see here, for a little while that space becomes the recently installed app.  The user can find the app, they can revisit it.  And if they use it enough, it will move its way into the most-used section automatically.  And of course at any time the user can drag from left to right to take any of those apps and pin them as full Live Tiles.  So think of this as the user’s lifecycle of discovery and engagement and reuse, which we’re trying to script right into the Start menu.
There’s a whole other area that users are engaging with where we want to bring some beauty and new ideas for how they can get value out of their PC experience, and that is the lock screen.  So I want to show you some of what we’re doing on lock to help users discover and engage with the value in the Windows ecosystem.
So imagine you’re a user and this morning you wake up and you turn on your PC or your tablet, and you get this beautiful lock screen.  Well, in this case you’re using our Windows Spotlight feature, which you could choose to use or not on your lock screen, and it provides a service-driven personalized stream of information on your lock screen for you.
And so maybe in a week you’ll wake up and your screen looks a little different.  In this case you say to yourself, man, that is a beautiful and striking imagine.  You’re so enthused by it that you move your mouse to the upper right, click on the hotspot, “Like What You See,” and here’s a place where you have the opportunity to train our service on which things are interesting to you.
In this case I find out this is the Navajo loop switchbacks.  It’s a cool looking trail.  I might vote that I love it, and then I’ll get more images like that.
Time goes by.  One day, you see an image like this.  Now, this is because we are able, as I said, to understand on the client what your use of the PC is and communicate that data to the service to give personally relevant suggestions.
And so I want you to imagine a user who’s had Windows 10 for six weeks or eight weeks, and they haven’t used Cortana yet, they haven’t tried it out.  And because they haven’t tried it out, our service is able to provide the client with a set of options that we can display to help users learn about, discover, and engage with value in the Windows ecosystem.
And in this case you see the image that’s suggestive of Cortana.  There’s a few more hotspots to give you more information.  If you click in the upper left, we’ll give you a preview of what the Cortana UI would be like, and you can click, “Give me a try,” then unlock your PC, we’ll reveal the Cortana user experience, and now you can try it out for yourself.
Keep in mind, this is personalized and it’s informed by what you do on the PC.  So if you’re a power user who’s been using Cortana, you’re not going to see this.
Imagine time goes by.  You get more beautiful images.  Your desktop PC or your tablet always feels fresh with all this great stuff.  And then one morning, you might see an image like this.
As a tablet user you maybe have not tried out all the capabilities of your tablet to do stuff like beautiful artwork using the pen.  And, in fact, here’s an app that gives you that kind of benefit that you haven’t used so far.  And there’s a few extra hotspots to help you learn about it.
When you click in the upper left, the Fresh Paint app that’s in the store is described, and at any time you could choose to click “Get it Now.”  Your PC, you’d unlock your PC, jump right into the store, and then you’d be able to install the app and try it out.
And then a few days go by, and you’re back to seeing your beautiful images.
We call this feature the Windows Spotlight, and it’s optional.  Any user can turn it on with their lock screen, and then get the value of learning about new things in the Windows ecosystem in a way that’s tailored for you and also gets this beautiful stream of images on your lock screen.
So that’s another way that we’re going to help users find and discover value in the Windows ecosystem.
OK, I want to show you yet another part of our user experience that we’ve continued to evolve with feedback from our Insiders, and which has a lot of relevance to users discovering and engaging with apps.  That’s Cortana.
So, of course, we’ve done lots of demos of Cortana.  I’m not going to go through the end- user features of Cortana, but I want to show you a couple of ways that Cortana will assist with engagement.
I should quickly point out there’s some new UI that we have for Cortana that you all haven’t seen yet.  You’ll be getting this in a flight coming up soon.
Over here I have access to the Cortana home — I’ll fold this out so you can see — the notebook, your reminders, your favorite places.  And, of course, here is the Cortana — the place where she gives you proactive suggestions and information based on your interests.  You can see I follow Microsoft stock, I follow the Mariners baseball team, I care about sports news in general, the Seattle Seahawks and so on.  So those are personal interests that I’ve educated Cortana about, which are things that are relevant to me.  And you’ll see how this comes up again later.
Now, one of the really high use cases for that Cortana edit control right there is people typing to ask questions, get information, but also to launch apps.  And we think that’s a great, relevant way to help people discover new value as well.
So imagine I’m running “Star Wars Commander” on my PC, I’ve got it installed and I run it a lot.  I might start typing in to launch the app, and you’ll notice in this case there’s a new “Star Wars Rebels” app in the Star Wars app family, and we’re going to promote right up at the top this new app that’s available for you to install.
Now, I will point out, because you may be sitting there thinking, hmm, that’s not that much promotion; we’ve done some user testing on this, and we’re going to bulk up that store app tile to provide a little bit more information, more along the lines of what you saw in Start.  So we think this is going to be quite a helpful way to discover new apps that are available in the store.
Now, Terry mentioned this, and Satya mentioned the notion that we care about natural user interaction, and we want Cortana to represent a single way for users on Windows to interact with all kinds of capabilities that are built throughout the ecosystem.  So we’re connecting Cortana’s typed natural language and spoken natural language deeply into your apps.
And we’re doing this in two ways.  And this is quite a bit farther than we did with Windows Phone before, so I want to show you the range of sorts of things that are possible.  I want you to imagine in one case, I want to bring up the app to do a task with the app, and in the other case I simply want Cortana to get something done for me using the technology that’s part of an app.  So here’s a couple of examples.
Hey, Cortana, start a chat with Terry Myerson on Viber.
  Starting a chat with Terry Myerson.
  Now in this case I gave a natural language query.  I said I want to start a chat.  I said it was with Terry.  And I said I wanted her to do it on Viber.  And in this case, she opens up the app.  I’m in my chat context with the previous chatting we were doing, and I can keep going with my chat.  So that’s sort of a deep app launching kind of task.
But then there’s a whole class of tasks where we want Cortana to represent being a personal assistant that can get things done for you even using the capabilities that are written into the app that are part of the Windows ecosystem.  So I can ask Cortana to execute commands in apps and get confirmation right on the canvas.
Hey, Cortana.  Tell Terry Myerson I’m running really late using Viber.
  OK, message Terry Myerson on Viber.  Myerson, I’m running really late.  Sounds good?
  Yep.  Yes.  Yep.
  Message sent.
  OK, there we go.  You get the idea here.  Now, in this case I asked Cortana to do something using an app, and in that case the app UI didn’t need to get displayed, and so Cortana’s canvas was able to do the disambiguation.
If I want to I could go right here and click the link to open the app, but that’s not what I need to do.  There’s Cortana helping me get stuff done.
OK, so I’ve talked about the lock screen, the start screen, Cortana.  There’s one other really big feature in Windows 10 that has relevance to this conversation to all of you as developers, and that is Project Spartan.  Project Spartan, Project Spartan.  You know, I have to admit, our PR team has been giving me and us a hard time, because they say it’s not a great idea to keep saying Project Spartan when that’s not really the name of the Web — would you like to hear the name of the new Web browser in Windows 10?
OK, let’s run the video.
Microsoft Edge is the browser built for Windows 10, and it will be available on the widest range of Windows 10 devices. And for us the name refers to the idea of being on the edge of consuming and creating.  It refers to the developer notion of being closest to the modern capabilities of the Web.  And so it is a browser that end users will think about for getting things done, for things like note-taking on the Internet, for a great way of reading and consuming content.  And it’s a browser that has Cortana built-in, so it learns the things that you care about and helps you get things done.
I’m not going to go show any of that stuff.  We’ve shown that before.  As developers there are a few reasons that you’re going to care about Microsoft Edge.  You’re going to care about the blazing fast core technology that’s inside it.  You’ll hear more about that in a talk tomorrow.  You’re going to care that we’re writing it as a universal Windows app proving out the platform, and you’re also going to care because we’re going to make it help users discover and engage with your apps and your site.
So let me come over here and show you some of what we’re doing there.  And I’m going to come down here to the “E” icon on the taskbar, which now has a completely different and better meaning than it had for a while, and open up Microsoft Edge.
Now the first thing that I want to show you that’s new is the new tab page that we’re adding to Microsoft Edge.  Today in IE the task of starting a new tab and starting new Web browsing happens over a billion times a day.  So this is a heavily used piece of UI.  And you’ll see here how we’re going to take advantage of Cortana’s presence in the browser and understanding of you, along with an understanding of value in the ecosystem to give users a great way to start their Web browsing experience, or discover other things.
So you can see, of course, I can type to enter a Web address, or do a search.  Up here are my top sites and in some cases there’s an app available for these sites in the store.  So we make that discoverable and available.  As I scroll down you’ll see here are some featured apps that we’re showing.  Here’s a lot of news stories that are relevant to me.  In fact, my sports favorites that you saw in Cortana and my stock watch list in Cortana, those are represented right here in the new tab page.  That’s an example of Cortana helping to compose this in a way that’s useful to me.
So that’s new tab.  And we’ve been testing this a ton and we’re optimistic about its opportunity to help people discover and connect with work that you all do on the Web and in apps.  Now, there’s another big thing that we’re doing in Microsoft Edge that has huge relevance to you.  And that is enabling users to engage with your sites and give you a shot at starting to write some Web code, which you may put into an app via Web extensions built into Microsoft Edge.
So I’m going to show you a couple of Web extensions.  This is HTML and JavaScript, Web extensions using Web standards that people have been writing for Firefox and Chrome for quite a while.  We’ve grabbed a couple of these from Chrome with just a few minor modifications and we’re lighting them up right in here in Microsoft Edge.  So the first thing, how many Reddit users do we have?  Yes, come on, you must be Reddit users.  For those of you who are power Reddit users, maybe in some of the other browsers you’ve tried the Reddit Enhancements Suite, which modifies the markup on Reddit to make it easier to find images and scroll pages.  Well, we’ve brought that to Microsoft Edge, as I said, with just a few changes.
So as I scroll down here you’ll see the Web has been altered via this little paw print here that I can use to expand and this little pink nose just kills me, too, as I look at this cute image.  Is that of a cat or a mouse, I don’t even know? And as I scroll down here you’ll see the never-ending Reddit modifies the page to continue to expand it as we go.  It was virtually no work to take this from the Chrome Extensions store and run this — this is standards-based HTML and JavaScript, just running here as part of an extension.
Now another example which certainly matters in terms of user engagement, up here you’ll see we’ve added a Pinterest extension to the browser toolbar and when I click that this is going to interact with the markup on the page to show all of the images that we’ve generated by the Reddit enhancement suite and now I can find tons of things here that are incredibly cute that I might pin to one of the many Pinterest cute animal boards that I and I know all of you keep just for this sort of thing.
So with Microsoft Edge and the new support for these extensions you’ll see how we’re going to enable people to discover and engage with code that you’re propping up on the Web, and as I said, of course, you can bring that into an app, as well.
So you’ve seen for engagement the start screen, the lock screen, you’ve seen Cortana and Microsoft Edge all helping people discover value in the Windows ecosystem.  But, now what I’m going to do is change gears and talk about how the Windows platform and universal Windows apps make devices more valuable to end users.
In general we have a vision and an idea that the Windows platform and apps written for it should be able to flex to different screen sizes and different input methods, not by writing separate code, but by having a platform that’s smart enough to do it, in fact, even dynamically on the same device.  We call this feature Continuum.  It’s a promise to end users made along with our OEM partners that devices can flex.  So I’m going to show you some of the ways that Continuum is evolving and I want to show you some of the ways that your apps can light up a great Continuum experience.
I’m going to start with an eight-inch tablet.  This is a Lenovo ThinkPad.  It’s running full Windows.  It’s got an Intel compatible part.  And the first thing you might notice, of course, I’m going to use this in tablet mode, so you’re looking at tablet mode.  But, for those of you who have paid attention closely and especially if you’ve given us feedback, our touch start in tablet mode we’ve simplified here.
We’ve made the Live Tiles bigger.  This looks very familiar to Windows 8 users.  And the extra stuff your most used list, your sign in, things like File Explorer settings, the power switch, are all over here.  I can navigate to all apps.  All apps are shown nicely in this list.  We now have jump lists working in here in a nice way with animation and so on.  So it’s really easy for me to navigate around my apps.
Of course, down here in the system task switcher I’ve got my task switching button, which I can use to switch between lots of apps.  Here’s Excel.  That’s the Excel for Windows 10.  And what I’m going to do here is jump into Maps.  And I want to do some navigation in the Maps app here.  And I want to show you how this will scale to a more full PC-like experience.
So here I am in my map.  I’m going to go up here and choose the favorites menu, and down here in this panel on the bottom we’re first going to navigate to New York City.  And I want to point out that the system UI now includes a global back button.  So I’ll hit the back button.  The app navigates back, and now we’ll navigate to Tampa.
Now what I’m going to do, think about me using this in a very natural, touch-friendly way, but now since this is a full PC, I’m going to bring it back to my office and I’m just going to dock it in here.  And when I do I want you to notice how the Maps app experience changes to adapt.  The panel that was on the bottom when I was in portrait mode is now on the left side.  And, in fact, when I restore this window, I’ve now got my Excel, I’ve got my PowerPoint, all here running in a familiar way with windows that I can minimize and restore in PC mode.  So that’s an example of Continuum really helping me flex on a small tablet.
The next example I want to show you that’s new is here on this Surface Pro 3, where I have a rich complex Win32 app.  This is Autodesk’s Maya.  It’s a high-end, heavily used, very popular 3-D authoring app.  And if you notice the UI, I’ve got lots of toolbars and palettes.  Down here I’ve got the timeline where I might edit animations of my 3-D character.
But imagine I’m an artist, and so I might use this docked with a big screen keyboard and mouse.  I might use it like this.  But sometimes I’m going to remove the keyboard entirely and use it like a tablet.  And in this case, here’s a Win32 app responding to that change in state in the system and adapting its UI.  And now I can use touch, or I could use the pen to be able to do things like markup right on the character.  Maybe I’m now going to be in this mode where I want to take notes for people on my team, share my thoughts on the character.  The app flexes to take advantage of the use of the pen and touch as opposed to mouse and keyboard, and in that case using Win32.
Now I have one last thing I want to show.  Thank you.  I have one last thing I want to show.  So far we’ve shown this Continuum feature working with our shell and with apps on the PC and watching the PC device flex across these form factors.  But we have a vision that not only the PC can benefit from flexibility in use of input devices and screen sizes.  So, too, can the phone.  And so today we’re excited to show for the first time Continuum for phones built into Windows 10.
So let me give you a look at how that works.  So over here I should point out, we need new hardware for this, and I don’t have that hardware working today.  In fact, we’re going to try a demo of that at a session on Thursday.  So you’re seeing a simulation.  What I’m going to do is connect my phone, and get that going, once I connect my phone, I want you to think of this I’ve got a Bluetooth keyboard, a Bluetooth mouse, and a screen, just a screen, that I’m connecting via HDMI.
So because this phone software has all the core componentry that’s highly shared between the PC, things like Bluetooth keyboard and mice, they’re supported.  And you might notice, I’m not sure if this shot shows this, but at the top of my phone screen now it says “tap for mouse and keyboard controller.”  I could tap that and then get essentially a mouse pad on my phone.  But I don’t need to do that because I have a full Bluetooth mouse and keyboard right here.
Up here on the monitor, you’ll notice this looks very familiar.  It’s the same start menu with tiles I had on my phone now displayed like a start menu, and I’m going to start running apps to give you a sense of how well the phone experience transforms through Continuum to give you a very PC-like experience.
First I’ll launch PowerPoint.  This is the version of PowerPoint that comes with the phone.  And what you see on the big screen here sure looks like the version of PowerPoint that you would see on a PC because, in fact, it is the same code as the version of PowerPoint that you would download from the store and see on a PC.
I can do things like use my mouse and keyboard to create a new slide.  I’m going to go up here and use the ribbon to insert pictures.  Remember, this is my phone.  So as I’m inserting the photos, I bring up my photos, this is the camera roll of my phone and the photos that I’ve synched from OneDrive.  I’ll choose an appropriate desert picture from a trip I’ve made to Utah, and I’ll insert that into my PowerPoint presentation in a completely natural and familiar way using the keyboard and the mouse.
Let’s look at some other examples.  I’m going to click here to go into mail and the Outlook mail client that comes with Windows 10 PCs, and comes with phones, is now viewed and it looks completely familiar.  Here’s my mail folders.  I can choose a message in my inbox and over here I’ll click the reply button where I have the full power of the Word engine embedded right in Outlook for doing replies.  And there is the familiar ribbon.
You can see here Ann is asking me to update the latest expense report.  Eric is going to give me the December expenses.  So I’m going to switch over here to Excel where we are doing our expense reporting and you’ll see here is Excel, the universal Windows app Excel, running on the phone, but looking the same as it would on the PC.
I’ll choose my expense reporting app, and look at this my phone just buzzed, I got a text from Eric right there.  I’m going to click to navigate on my phone screen separately to my text app.  I’ll press and hold to get the context menu and I’ll choose copy, because I’m going to copy from that text right here to my December cell.  And of course, my brain is wired to know the keyboard shortcuts for all these apps, so I will hit control V to paste.  I’ll use my task switcher to come back to the Outlook email client and I can do a quick reply and send.    Thank you.
Now think about this: With Continuum for phones we believe any screen can be your PC.  Imagine that your company has a touchdown space where anyone can connect their tablet, or their phone, to keyboards mice and screens and then use their apps with their data and the full power of a keyboard and mouse, or imagine you’re on vacation and your hotel room can become a theater where you connect your phone to the screen, you let your kids watch a movie, while you use the second screen to catch up on your email.  Imagine the effect this can have on mobile-first countries, where individuals could be as productive with the phone that they’re buying if they can’t buy a full PC.
So what we’re trying to show here today with Continuum is our unique vision for phones and enabling them to scale up to a full PC-like experience.  And what we have so far is just the first step, because it requires all of you writing these universal Windows apps, whose UI can scale and adjust to different form factors, input types and screen sizes.  As I said, this capability will require new devices that can drive dual screen, and you’ll hear more about them later.
So that is my quick look at how we’re going to help all of you and our end users discover value in the Windows ecosystem, on the lock screen, on the start screen, with Cortana, with Microsoft Edge and how we’re going to enable great new devices with Continuum.  And I’m now excited to introduce to the stage Alex Kipman who is going to tell you even more about some great new devices.
Thanks a lot.
Remarks by Scott Guthrie, executive vice president, Cloud & Enterprise, on April 29, 2015.
  To kick things off, let me have Scott Guthrie come up to stage and talk about our cloud platform.  Thank you very much.  
    Thank you.  Well, good morning, everyone, and welcome to Build.
Satya just talked about our three core ambitions as a company.  I’m going to now continue the conversation and talk about the work we’re doing to build the intelligent cloud.
This is a broad ambition that spans a wide range of cloud services at Microsoft including Office 365 and Dynamics.  Today, though, I’m going to talk about the work we’re doing to power this ambition using Azure.
Azure is Microsoft’s cloud computing platform and enables you to move faster and do more.  Azure is a hyper-scale cloud platform, and over the last several years, we’ve built out Azure to run all over the world.
The circles on this map indicate Azure regions, which are made up of clusters of datacenters where you can run and deploy your code.
Today, we have 19 unique Azure regions open for business.  That’s more locations in more countries than both AWS and the Google Cloud combined.  And this enables you to run your applications closer to your customers and employees than ever before, and compete in even more geographic markets.
We continue to invest billions of dollars each year building out new infrastructure, and our cloud platform now manages more than 1 million servers.  This enables you to build apps without having to worry about your cloud platform’s capacity, and enables you to scale your solutions to any size.
Azure offers the choice and flexibility of a full-spectrum cloud.  It enables you to build apps that scale from personal projects up to global-scale applications.  You can start from scratch for new greenfield apps, or you can easily leverage your existing investments and skills.
It’s open, it supports the ability to target multiple devices, use multiple operating systems, programming languages, frameworks, data services and tools.
We allow you to put all of your app in Azure, or support hybrid deployments that span on-premises or other clouds.  You can choose to use Azure just for infrastructure and just use it for base compute storage and networking, but you can also take advantage of a coherent set of highly engineered services to build your apps even faster.  And our cloud platform and tools combination together deliver unmatched productivity and enable you to move faster and be even more successful.
So a busy 12 months for the Azure team since our last Build Conference a year ago.  We delivered more than 500 new Azure services and features in that time and greatly expanded the footprint and capabilities of what Azure delivers.
What we’re seeing is as we’re kind of expanding our feature set, as we’ve expanded our footprint around the world, we’re seeing the usage of Azure continue to rapidly grow.
We have more than 90,000 new Azure customer subscriptions now being created every month.  And those customers are creating some really amazing applications.
More than 1.4 million SQL databases are now being used by applications hosted inside Azure.  We have more than 50 trillion objects now stored in the Azure storage system, 425 million users in our Azure Active Directory system, 3 million developers registered with our Visual Studio Online Services, which is our online suite of developer SaaS offerings.
And we’re seeing the growth and traction of Azure happen not just in the enterprise and business user space, but more than 40 percent of our Azure revenue and usage now comes actually from startups and from ISVs.
Behind these large momentum numbers are some truly amazing customer stories.  This slide contains some of the logos of just a few of the companies doing great things in Azure.  And throughout today’s keynote, you’re going to hear me talk more about some of their specific stories and some of the reasons why they’re using Azure.
One of the things we know is that a cloud platform must offer the flexibility of choice.  Azure enables you to use the best of the Windows ecosystem and the best of the Linux ecosystem together.  Azure enables you to easily reuse the skills you already have, regardless of the programming languages you use.  And we allow you to take advantage of both core infrastructure capabilities and higher-level platform services.
Microsoft’s unique in that it’s the only hyper-scale cloud provider that architects those higher-level services and program model capabilities to run in multiple environments including both on-premises datacenters that you already have, as well as other clouds besides our own.
From the beginning of Azure, we’ve embraced open source in a very deep way.  And over this past year in particular, we’ve taken a number of significant steps to use open source even more broadly.  Last year, we announced our plans to deeply embrace Docker and the Docker ecosystem with both Azure and Windows Server and make containers a fundamental part of our application platform.
We’ve also open-sourced our core .NET runtime technology and announced our plans to support it on multiple platforms.  As well as, obviously, make it first-class when running within containers.  And this combination is really powerful and enables even more developer flexibility and choice.
What I’d like to do to kick things off is to actually invite Ben Golub and Mark Russinovich on stage here to talk about this work and show off a pretty cool demo of them in action.  So here’s Ben.  
  Thank you, Scott.  So if any of you are not aware, Docker has just celebrated its second birthday.  So frequently we’re used to thinking of Docker kind of like a human 2-year-old.  Occasionally stumbles, occasionally spits up and keeps those of us who are closest to it up at night.
And so it’s sort of surprising to be up here on stage at Build.  And, in fact, I’d like to talk about the five big surprises that we’ve had in working with Microsoft that all in many ways relate to this notion of how we can take openness, portability and flexibility and use it to empower developers.
Now, if you’re not familiar with Docker, it was started two years ago by Solomon Hykes, who felt that developers fundamentally are spending far too much of their time doing rework, worrying about dependencies, worrying about servers, instead of just building awesome apps.
And the initial innovation was, let’s make it possible to take any application and its dependencies, package them up in the digital equivalent of a shipping container, and enable any application that’s dockerized to interact well with any other dockerized application and run on any server.
Now, last October when we went up to meet with Microsoft, we were pretty proud of the fact that we’d gotten that working for Linux.  So you could take any Linux application, dockerize it and run it on any Linux server.
Quite frankly, we thought we’d leave Redmond with an agreement to make Docker for Linux run well on Hyper-V or run well in Azure.  But then we had the first of those big five surprises.
And the first big surprise was that we were not only going to work on Docker for Linux, we were going to work on Docker for Windows.  And so we’re going to enable the 4 million Docker Linux developers to join all of the millions of Windows developers and make it possible using standard Docker, using open source, to take any Windows application, dockerize it and run it on any server.
Second great surprise we had was this was not only about code, it was also about content and collaboration.  Now, if you’re familiar with Docker, you know we have a service called Docker Hub that has about 120,000 dockerized apps.
Microsoft has not only integrated Docker Hub into all of its developer platforms, but it’s contributing actively to Docker Hub, not just dockerized Windows components, but all of these great new open source, .NET and .NET for Linux components delivered, again, as Docker containers through the hub.
Third great surprise we had was that Microsoft embraced the notion of what you need to do to make multi-container apps work.  And they embraced the notion that if you want to make multi-container apps truly portable, you have to be open about how you do orchestration as well.
And so we’re so thrilled that Microsoft has embraced Docker’s open orchestration initiatives, Compose, Machine and Swarm.
Fourth great surprise — and yes, yes, there’s more — you combine those three things, you’re not only going to be able to make great multi-container Windows applications, you’ll be able to mix and match Windows containers and Linux containers.  Which means you’ll be able to use a Linux back end and a Windows front end or vice versa, basically chose the best damn tools for the best damn application that you want to build and run it on any server.
And the fifth, and perhaps greatest, surprise that we’ve had working with Microsoft is that this happened quickly.  And everything that I’ve spoken about is either live or working well in the lab right now.
And so without further ado, I’d like to bring Mark Russinovich, CTO of Azure, on board to show you what happens when you combine these great platforms together and, again, empower developers.  Thank you.  
  Thanks, Ben.
  And, Mark, I love the shirt.
  Thank you.  Great shirt.  Good morning, everybody.
All right, so what I’ve got right in front of you here is an ASP.NET 5 application, Fabrikam.  And it’s an e-commerce site.  It’s kind of a standard site, and I’m going to be doing some dev-test on it.
The first thing I’d like to do is deploy it to a Docker container running on a Windows Server machine.
On this dev-test box, I’ve got a virtual machine running Windows Server with Docker support, Docker container support.  And I’m going to take a look at the containers that I’ve already got running in that virtual machine by executing the Docker PS command, which lists the active containers.
You can see that I’ve got two containers active.  One is a Minecraft server, and the other one is a node.js application, which shows that Docker containers on Windows support many different runtimes and languages that you might be using.
Now, what I’m going to do is package up the Fabrikam application so that I can also deploy it into a container, and I’m going to use several Docker commands here, one called Docker build, which will package it up.
I’m going to tag the image that’s produced with the name Fabrikam so it’s easy to remember.  And then go ahead and package that.
And this is going to be executing a series of steps which take that ASP.NET 5 application, package it up in a dockerized image.  And the next step is to run that container with that image.  So I’ll type “docker run dash IT” to make it interactive, and you’ll see why I’m doing this in a second.  Oops, I forgot the docker command.  Docker run and Fabrikam.
Now, the reason that I’ve had it be interactive is so that we can print out the IP address so I can see the IP address of the website that’s going to launch that Fabrikam application.
If I go back and do a Docker PS at this point, you’ll see that that Fabrikam image has been launched into a container here.
Now, one of the really fun parts about using the Docker client is that if you don’t specify a name for your container, it comes up with a random one.  So let’s just see which names it’s come up with.  It called this one Tender Ilion.  Oh, and look at that.  What are the odds of that coming up like that?  
So let’s go take a look at that website now, which is going to be active.  I’ll launch IE.  The IP address is 1050.0.122 and we’re hitting 10.50.1002, and there we go, .NET running in a Windows Server container, executed with Docker.
But I’m showing you a lot of technology that some of you might not be familiar with.  So just a quick raise of hands.  How many people have heard of Linux?    OK, for those people watching online, about a third of the audience raised their hands.    Just kidding, everybody raised their hands, of course.
But what I’m going to show you is, Scott mentioned that we’ve got .NET support on Linux and we’ve integrated it with Docker containers as well.
So here I’ve got the same exact application.  And this time, I’m going to SSH into a Linux virtual machine and run the Docker PS command.  You can see I’ve got no containers running in that virtual machine.
Instead of using Docker run to deploy it, I’m going to deploy it right from Visual Studio using the publish command.  Right here, I’ve configured it to launch to that Docker host.  Here’s the IP address of that host.  When I type “publish” press “publish” here, it’s going to package it up and execute the same Docker client commands to deploy that Fabrikam application onto Linux.
If I go back and type “Docker PS” again, you’ll see there’s Fabrikam latest, and there’s the name Prickly Wozniak, so always fun to look at the names of the Docker expanders it creates.  
Let’s go see if that website has come up.  And, sure enough, there it is.  And you can see that that’s the same IP address as the SSH command, so I’m looking at the Docker container running on that virtual machine.
But now there’s more.  I’m doing dev-test of this Fabrikam application.  And I’d like to continue to use Visual Studio to do that, and I can now with integration of container debugging into Visual Studio.
So I’m going to go to Server Explorer, go to virtual machines.  Here’s a Docker VM, and there’s the Prickly Wozniak container.  I attach the debugger and just as a normal Visual Studio debugging experience, you can see, sure enough, there’s the CoreCLR for Linux underneath this application that I’ve just attached to.
Now I want to set a break point here on the function that I’m debugging.  I go back to the website, hit refresh, and I’m at the break point.  Debugging .NET in Linux deployed into a Docker container.  Thank you very much.  
  Thanks, Mark.  So we’ve been developing the cross-platform version of the .NET core runtime in the open on GitHub the last several months.  And I’m excited today to announce that we’re also releasing now a preview edition of the runtime in pre-compiled binary format that you can download and start using for Windows, for Linux, as well as for Mac.
Now, it’s an incredibly exciting time in the world today.  Disruption is changing the economy in a fundamental way not just in technology, but in traditional service industries as well.  You know, who would have predicted that both the taxi and the hospitality business would have been turned upside down five years ago?  And yet, innovative companies like Uber and Airbnb are doing just that.
Every organization is looking for ways to engage customers better, empower their employees more and ultimately transform the value they deliver.  And developers and the applications and solutions that they build play an absolutely integral role in enabling this.
In fact, it’s increasingly digital apps and technology that enable customers to delight their customers and differentiate from one another.  And it’s never been a better time, I think, than right now to be a developer.
Azure enables you to embrace this transformation and make you and your teams even more successful.  With Azure, we deliver a rich set of higher-level services that provide fully engineered solutions that enable you to move faster and achieve more.  And the combination of our cloud platform and tools really delivers unparalleled developer productivity as you do this.
You know, 3M is a customer who provides an excellent example of what Azure productivity can really deliver.  3M is one of the largest companies in the world.  They have 88,000 employees and literally deliver tens of thousands of products.  And 3M is using Azure to build the back ends for many of these products now.  And they love the agility that Azure provides them to move quickly and deliver even more value.
And one of the initial projects they hosted on Azure was an internal mobile app that they wanted to provide to their sales force to sell a new offering that they’d just actually come out with.
And a small development team that actually had never used Azure before signed up on a Friday.  Basically spent the weekend building the app.  And by the end of the weekend, had a fully production-ready version deployed on Azure ready to roll out to their sales force on Monday.
And this ability to quickly create robust, enterprise-ready applications with super-fast development cycles has really provided 3M with incredible business agility and helped them move even faster as an overall organization.
One of the great productivity solutions Azure delivers is our Azure App Service.  This is a really powerful offering that we released just last month and provides a suite of capabilities that enable you to quickly build and scale both Web and mobile applications anywhere in the world.
App Service allows you to write back-end code logic using .NET, Java, Node.js, PHP, and Python.  You can easily enable continuous integration workflows to it from online source repositories like Visual Studio Online, GitHub and Bitbucket.  And that enables it so that every time a developer checks in code into one of those services, Azure can automatically build it, test it, deploy it to a private production slot.  And if everything is looking good, then basically turn it on to production and do full monitoring and analytics on top of it.
Using Azure’s built-in auto scale capability, you can set up rules so that once you deploy the application, your application can automatically scale up based on incoming traffic.  In fact, if you get a massive influx of traffic, you can basically spin up a huge number of instances and handle basically any amount of load.  And when your traffic drops, Azure can basically automatically shut down those resources to help you save money and pay only for what you actually need.
A couple cool features we’ve added recently to the Azure App Service is enterprise connectivity.  And this allows you the ability to set up a virtual private network that allows you to connect back to an on-premises enterprise network and access apps and data that you wish to make available in the cloud.
This makes it really easy to integrate with existing enterprise solutions you already have.  And Azure App Service also now provides support for easily integrating data and functionality for popular SaaS solutions like Office 365, Dynamics and Salesforce.  And you can use the Logic App’s functionality within App Service to create long-running workflows to automate business processes.
What I’d like to do is invite Scott Hanselman here on stage to show off our Azure App Service and what you can build with it.  
  Hi, friends.  You know, we’re really excited about the maker movement and things like Raspberry Pi and 3-D printers.  You really should pick up one of these, these are great.
And one of the applications that we’ve brought here, the Fabrikam application, is a maker’s space.  And they sell things like Printrbot 3-D printers and Netduino Wi-Fi and things like that.  But they also offer a service where I can go and upload a 3-D print.  I’ve got a 3-D object here and 3-D Builder that you can go and get up on the Windows Store.
So I’m going to upload him into this application that is running in Azure App Service.
And we bring him up and then hit upload.  This modern application, there we go, you’ve actually got a little JavaScript three.js there showing me the model.  It’s going to tell me where I can pick it up and when.  And this is now going to go through a process.  It’s talking to a back-end order service, the one that we saw.
And let’s switch over into Visual Studio and see how we’ve built that.  Now, this is that ASP.NET 5 application using the .NET CoreCLR and using modern techniques that is talking to the back end.
This order details back end is running within the context of Azure.  And we’re using HTML5, CSS3, all the kinds of modern things that you’d expect.  And we’re actually bringing in Bower and NPM inside of Visual Studio.
And because I’m a Web developer, I want to use my Web development skills to make other applications.  So we also have the back end for the administrator.
So when someone at the store gets that 3-D print, we can click on the order.  They’ve got access to that print.  So they’re using this application on a Surface to talk to the same order API that the website does.
We’ve got built into Visual Studio the tools for Apache Cordova that are also using HTML and JavaScript, and we’re reusing some of that JavaScript as well.  And I can go and generate mobile applications.  I can certainly use C++ or tools on Xamarin.  In this case, tools for Apache Cordova have allowed me to create a mobile app so I can go and make purchases from this store and also check on my order.
You maybe have seen the Windows emulator that runs on Hyper-V that comes with Visual Studio.  But you may not be familiar with the Android emulator.  This is an Android emulator that comes with Visual Studio, you have this, and I can go and check on my order from that Android emulator running under Hyper-V at full speed.  All part of the Apache Cordova tools that are built in here.  It also includes debugging and a really amazing experience for people making mobile applications on any platform.
Let’s switch over to Visual Studio Online and see how we’re managing this code.  Now, in this case, our team is working on a Git repository that’s running in Visual Studio Online.  You can see John Galloway is making some changes here.
But not only are we doing source control within VSO, but we’re also managing our backlog.  So we can keep track of what’s working and what’s not working in this Kanban VOR.  We’ve got full support for work items.  But more interesting to me is that workflow that the team is going through.
We’ve got the build running in Visual Studio Online as well.  So this ASP.NET 5, .NET CoreCLR application is building in VSO and then deploy out to the applications in Azure App Service automatically.
Now, if I switch over to Azure, I can see that application in the API host here.  And when I move that into production, we can click within Azure itself and see the deployments here as well.  So I can see a deployment that John put out on Sunday, click on that, and that integration with Visual Studio Online, I can see his commits, whether that build succeeded.
So I check into Git, Visual Studio Online, it runs the build, runs the test, makes sure that everything is OK, sends it out into Azure.  Once it’s in Azure in production, I can also scale it.  I can automatically scale it.  Coming here on scale by, I can set the number of instances and a target range of the CPU.  So if the CPU goes above a certain amount, the application will scale.
So I’ve got the full life cycle from Visual Studio all up through production.  And now this application in production scaling, I’m going to want to get insights into what’s going on.
Now, you would expect to have great Web insights.  We’ve got Application Insights showing us all sorts of details.  We have dependency tracking, all the way down to a single line of code.
So from Visual Studio and Azure, you’ve got the best dev ops that allow teams to create both Web and mobile apps, but with our recent integration of HockeyApp, I’ve got the same deep insights for mobile applications.
So Insight integrated into Azure, you can see here the mobile app crashes, events, sessions by country.  I can go all the way down to a single line of code.  And here’s actually the iOS version of this application.  And I can go and see specifically what worked and what didn’t down to an exact line, in this case of Swift code.  So it’s a 360-degree view of any platform from the highest level all the way down to the lowest level, to a single line of code.
So this is a lot to take in.  Let’s step back for a second and get an understanding about how this fits in.  We’ve got Web apps, we’ve got mobile applications, those are talking to APIs in the back end.  When I submitted my order, it went to this order API written in ASP.NET 5 and the CoreCLR.
Those API apps can be written by me, or they can be written by a third party or brought in from our marketplace.  But a really interesting thing is this concept of logic applications because there’s business processes like when that order gets completed, I want to get notified as a customer about that.
So let’s take a look at what a logic application looks like.
So let me switch over.  Here we go.  So this is an application here where we’ve got individual API apps.  The SQL Connector is going to be looking at the data for the orders, and then it flows through this workflow from one API up to another using a technology called Swagger, where that metadata is going through the system into Salesforce.
And then in this case, we’re posting a message to Slack.  I can bring in that order API that we created in ASP.NET and then get the details for that order.  You see that that actually got populated using the Swagger details.  And then it knows about previous things within this workflow.
This is a reliable, durable workflow in the cloud.  And now I can click on Twilio and bring in the Twilio connector and then send a message to let me know when this order is completed.
So here I can access any aspects of what is flowing through the system.  In this case, I’ll look at the phone number and we will have the “from” number, the “to” number, and then under text here, we’re going to have “hi person sales force first name your order is ready.”  This is the kind of common business process that you don’t necessarily want to write in code because it changes a lot.
And this is all happening in the cloud in this business orchestration service called LogicApps.  And you can integrate this with any existing application running on any language, not just .NET, Node, Python, anything that can create a Swagger application can do this.
Now, I think this is pretty amazing.  But I feel like, perhaps, I haven’t sufficiently blown your minds, and I promised a number of people that I would do that.
So let’s take a moment and then switch over to our Macintosh here.  Now, on this Mac, you can see that I can load up Visual Studio Online, I can manage my code and write my cross-platform .NET applications.
And I can do that using any one of the many editors that one would use on a Mac like Emac, Sublime and things like that.  But, inevitably, I find myself going into Spotlight on a Mac and just wishing that there was a member of the Visual Studio family that I could somehow run.  And now there is.  
I’m really, really happy to announce that Visual Studio Code — this is a code-optimized development tool that runs natively on Windows, Mac and Linux.  It supports dozens of languages out of the box, it’s a great application for all kinds of things that you’re going to do that are code-focused.
But it’s not just a simple editor.  It has deep insights into what’s going on.  This is the same Fabrikam order details application.  Here is a code peek, I can see the references.  I’ll go into order details.  From here, I can hover over individual objects, get information about them, and help.  And I get real IntelliSense, not just auto complete.  In this case, powered by the open-source tools of Roslyn and OmniSharp.  So this is pretty freaking amazing.
I can also do things like this.  We’ll bring in a little refactoring here, make a change.  Save this, and I’ve got Git and diffs and I can push it to Visual Studio Online where it will then run through the process, be built, tested, deployed and scaled to Azure, which is pretty fantastic.
Visual Studio Code, but this is still not really blowing my mind.  I feel I can do even better.  So why don’t we take a moment and switch over to Ubuntu?  
So now I’m in this application.  In this case, I’m using a Mono application, and big thanks to the folks at Mono who helped us with Mono 4.01 that this demo is running on.  I can now click on debug, launch an interactive debugging session.  So now I’m on Ubuntu in a .NET app doing a debug session.  I’ve got local variables, I’ve got a call stack, I’ve got break points, all in this great, lightweight code editor, Visual Studio Code.
This, I think, makes the point that Visual Studio is now a family of tools for every developer and Azure is the cloud back end for everyone.
And I just got a text message on my Band that my 3-D print is being delivered.  Oh, how nice.  Thank you.
  There you go.
  That’s great.  Now my Scott Gu action figure has a friend.  Thank you, sir.  
  Well, thanks, Scott.  That was kind of a great example of the type of end-to-end productivity that the combination of Azure and our Visual Studio family now provides.  You can see, as Scott mentioned, really a 360-degree view from coding to deployment to testing to source control management to running and scaling your application.  It does it all.
You also saw our newest addition to the Visual Studio family, which is Visual Studio Code.  Visual Studio Code is a code-optimized editing environment.  It’s small, fast and provides both IntelliSense and debugging support.  And as you saw, it has full integration for Git.
And one of the things that it can be used on Windows, on Mac, as well as Linux development machines.  And I’m really excited to announce that we’re going to be making it available for free.  
Even better, we’re pleased to announce that later today the first download of it will be available on all those platforms for you to start using.  
Now, our mission with Visual Studio is to provide best-in-class tools for every developer.  And we now have tools for developers who like lightweight, code-optimized editors as well as for those looking for a full development enterprise IDE.
And with Visual Studio Online, as Scott showed, we now provide a full suite of developer services that run in the cloud that deliver a full application life-cycle management experience including source control, bug and work item tracking, continuous integration builds, load testing, performance, crash analytics, and a whole bunch more.
What’s great is you can take advantage of all these services directly from any of our Visual Studio development tools, or you can also use them from any other development tool as well.  You know, this really enables you to build amazing applications in this mobile-first, cloud-first world.  And we’re really excited to talk more about this in the breakout talks and all the great features that are coming in Visual Studio this year.
Mark Andreessen wrote an article a few years ago where he talked about how software is eating the world and about how companies will increasingly deliver their value through online services.
Today, more than 90 percent of all technology companies are now delivering or building online SaaS services to deliver more value and better connect with their customers.
And many of our biggest customers using Azure today are using it to build and deliver SaaS services to their customers.  This includes both born-in-the-cloud companies as well as enterprises that are reinventing themselves by becoming technology firms.
AccuWeather is a great example of one of those companies.  They’re one of the largest weather forecasting services in the world.  They were originally actually an AWS customer and then switched to Azure to power their weather service.  They process more than 6 billion data requests each day through their APIs for temperature and weather forecasts.  And they use Azure for weather prediction as well as to power all of their iOS, Android and Windows apps.
DocuSign is another great example.  They provide an electronic signature signing SaaS service.  They’ve been growing at 300 percent year over year for seven years now, and they now service more than 120,000 enterprise customers.  And they’re a fantastic example of a successful startup and their valuation is now worth billions.
GE Healthcare is working to provide their customers, who are doctors and hospitals, easier ways to collect, analyze and report healthcare data.  And they deployed multiple SaaS applications on Azure while meeting the most stringent regulatory environments.
This week at Build, we’re going to talk about a number of new technologies that we’re delivering that enable you to build great high-scale SaaS services like these.  One of the technologies we’re going to talk about is something we call Azure Service Fabric.
Service Fabric is a high-control, distributed computing framework.  We created it to power our own high-scale cloud services, and we’ve battle-hardened it over the last several years under extreme loads and super-demanding requirements.
It supports the ability to create cloud services composed of both stateless and stateful micro services.  And it has support for hyper scale-out deployments, self-healing and core management, as well as the orchestration of code updates.
And we’re going to release the Service Fabric SDK to make it available on both Windows as well as Linux systems.  The first download of that will be available this week.
And in addition to supporting Azure, you’ll also be able to use it to build great solutions that run in a multi-cloud environment.  We’re going to have a great set of talks later today that will go into more detail on it.
Now, when you think about building great SaaS applications, one of the things that’s sort of fundamental to building those is to be able to do great data management.  And Azure supports a wide variety of data storage and management solutions.
You can use pretty much every commercial or open source data management offering on Azure.  And Microsoft also optimizes and delivers both relational and NoSQL data solutions as highly available managed services that you can basically deploy and use.
Our SQL database offering is one of our most popular offerings.  It’s a cloud-native database as a service.  It’s highly available, durable and fault tolerant.  And enables you to store and manage data without having to worry about infrastructure, patching, software updates or backups.  That’s all built in as part of the service.
You can provision a SQL Database in just seconds and run it literally anywhere around the world.  And you can set up a SQL Database to actively geo-replicate transactions across multiple Azure regions while you’re doing that, enabling automatic failover support within your applications as well as geographic scale-out.
We’ve added some great new features to SQL databases over the last few months like elastic scale support, which enables you to shard and scale out SQL databases to be petabytes in size, and in-memory column support which gives you 100X performance improvements for many core data scenarios.
And because, again, SQL Database is offered as a managed service as opposed to just a database inside a VM, developers are able to host, scale, and use databases in a true cloud-native way.
In fact, up to 160,000 SQL databases are now created or dropped every single day using Azure for a wide variety of different scenarios.
What I thought I’d do is actually just talk about and show a nice video of one of the customers that’s using SQL Database.  They actually have over 10,000 SQL databases running on Azure today.  And this is ESRI, who is the leading provider of geographic information services software.  So what I’d like to do is roll the video and talk about how they’re taking advantage of it.
    I’m excited to announce today a number of great new enhancements to our SQL Database Service that you can start using immediately.  These include TDE support, which provides the ability for you to insure and control encryption at rest policies within your databases.  Full text search support, which enables you to run text queries against your data.  And a new capability I’m particularly excited about called Elastic Database Pool, which enables you to better manage lots of databases at even lower cost, and is perfect for SaaS solutions.
One of the common challenges for developer that are building SaaS-based applications that serve lots of B2B customers is architecting for the right data model.  One approach is to use a shared database where you have lots of customers sharing the same tables of data.  This is good from a resource cost perspective, but it introduces high operational complexity into your application.
Now, another approach that many SaaS apps use is to maintain a separate database per B2B customer.  This provides great data isolation and ensures that no two companies’ data is ever stored in the same database, but in the past, it’s typically been more expensive since each database uses a separate set of resources.
Today, we’re really excited to introduce our new Elastic Database Pool support, which gives you the best of both worlds.  Elastic Database Pool enables you to maintain completely isolated databases for each of your B2B customers, but then allows you to aggregate all the resources necessary to run those databases into a common resource pool.
This allows you to smooth out the peaks and dips of different databases within your SaaS app and allows you to end up using far fewer resources to run your application.  And the end result is that it saves you lots of money while also improving the overall operational complexity of running your SaaS solution.
What I’d like to do is invite Lara on stage to show this off in action.  
  Thank you.  Hi.  We’re going to walk through some great new updates with Azure SQL Database.  And SaaS developers are going to love this stuff.
As Scott just talked about, you can let Azure dynamically manage your database resources using an elastic database pool.  And the best part is, this can also save you money.
When you first create a pool, one of the decisions you need to make is what databases should you even put in the pool?  We’ve removed a lot of this guesswork.  We’re using machine learning behind the scenes to produce a list of recommended databases to go into a pool.
We’re going to take that list of databases and we’ll just add them.  We want these databases to dynamically use a pool of resources.  So we have these visualizations that help us properly size what that pool should look like based on the databases that we’ve selected.
But what’s also very important is that you can specify the minimum and maximum performance characteristics of all of your databases.  Basically, what this means is any database can have a spike in performance, but they’re not going to end up being a noisy neighbor to any of the other databases in the pool.
Now you don’t have to worry about what size you’re going to give your database — S0, S3, S1 — just let Azure dynamically figure that out for you.  You’re going to have the best cost for your company and you get the best application performance for your customer.
Let’s go through some developer stuff.  We have this report.  And this is a report for the Fabrikam company.  And it allows franchise owners to see how their stores are performing.
The really cool thing about this report is that it’s aggregating live data from all of the databases in our pool.  We have 30 databases.  And it’s using a single connection string and a single query.
In a few weeks, we’re going to deliver in preview Elastic Database Query.  And creating a report with a single connection string against a group of databases will be as simple as a select start.
Finally, how do you manage updates and changes when you’re in an SaaS world?  You have tens, hundreds, thousands of databases.  How do you make updates to all of those databases?
For example, our world, we may want to restrict the rows of data so that each franchise owner only sees the data for the stores that they own.  Well, Azure SQL Database delivered low-level security some time ago.  We want to implement that, but that’s going to require a change to all of our databases.
To make any database change, any schema change, maybe you want to do a maintenance update, we’ll use the new elastic database job.  We’ll take our standard T-SQL that we know and love and we’re going to just submit this as a job to our pool.  We’ll call this RLS for role-level security.
So once I click run, my work is done.  I let Azure do all the rest of the work.  I don’t have to write my custom script that loops through all the databases, I don’t have to manage retry logic, I don’t have to think about how I’m going to scale this to tens, hundreds and thousands of databases.
Azure takes care of all of that for me.  I can use this for maintenance jobs like rebuilding indexes.  I can use this for other standard statistics updates or just one-time updates, any kind of update like that.
And after this completes running, we can see it’s already almost complete against all of our databases.  And if we just give it a second and we refresh our report, hopefully Martina only sees the rows of data for the stores that she owns.
So now you’ve got these fantastic new tools that will help really build robust SaaS applications using Azure SQL database.  Thank you.  
  So as we can see, we’re adding lots of great enhancements to our overall data story in terms of enabling you to store operationalized data whether it’s in a single database or across thousands of them.
I want to switch gears now and talk also now about how you can use analytics on top of that data.  You know, we’re in a unique world right now in terms of the expectations people have around intelligent apps.  And companies that embrace analytics will be much more competitive in this disruptive economy than those who don’t.  Your data, combined with analytics, enables you to answer business-critical questions and build much better apps.
Questions like what other products would a customer who’s already purchased something from you want?  You know, what’s the likelihood of a customer of yours churning?  What are the warning signs you should watch out for before they do so?
What is the price of elasticity of your products and services?  How do you optimize for that?  Do you have sufficient product availability for the upcoming holiday or for a special promotion?
Being able to answer these questions accurately and use that insight to improve your applications can transform your business.
Now, in the past, answering questions like this was painful.  Data warehouses took months to set up and integrating analytics systems was hard.  With Azure, we now provide a suite of highly engineered analytics services that make answering these types of questions easy.  And it enables you to basically maximize the value of each byte of data that your application stores and processes.
Each of these services on this slide can be provisioned in minutes and composed together, they provide complete, full solutions.  And today I’m excited to announce two new Azure services that we’re launching that complement this existing offering even further and make it even easier to unlock insights from data.
Our new SQL Database Service makes it easy for anyone to set up a data warehouse to aggregate and store data in just minutes.  You can elastically scale the SQL Data Warehouse Service to store petabytes of data, and independently scale compute to match whatever resources you need to process it.
Our Data Warehouse offering makes it easy to interactively query and visualize all of the data stored within it, as well as operationalized machine learning on top of it.
What I’d like to do is show a quick video of it in action.
    Using our new SQL Data Warehouse Service, you can easily stand up and aggregate data from any source.  You can archive data from your operational SQL or NoSQL databases, you can also then aggregate that data from on-premises data like an SAP system or a Dynamics system.
You can also easily aggregate data from a Hadoop cluster and be able to import any type of data from that.
Now, once your data is in the data warehouse, you can then easily visualize and interact with it using our new Power BI service.  And this provides a rich way you can visualize your data and ask questions of it.
You can also run reports against it, as well as stand up and use machine learning to create predictive models on top of that data.
One of the things that makes our machine learning service so powerful is that once you create a predictive model with it, you can then expose it as an API that your apps can now call and use.  And this basically means the more data you get, the smarter your apps get, and creates a virtuous cycle that really allows you to build some truly amazing systems.
Now, there are other data warehouse offerings in the market today, and AWS has seen a good uplift with its Redshift offering.
I thought I’d just spend a little bit of time talking about how now Azure is even better.  Unlike Redshift, you can independently adjust the amount of compute and storage that you use with a SQL Data Warehouse.  This allows you to reduce costs and pay only for what you actually need.
You can automatically scale up your data warehouse in seconds.  This is a big difference versus Redshift, where typically it takes hours or even days to rescale your data warehouse, and your data warehouse goes into a read-only mode with perf degradation.  This allows you to basically increase and decrease pretty much at will.
Redshift doesn’t have the ability to pause a cluster.  And so unlike SQL Data Warehouse where you can pause when you no longer need your data warehouse and pay only for storage.  This allows you to reduce costs and pay only for what you actually need.
So a great example of that might be when the end of the month or end of the quarter you need a data warehouse.  When you no longer need it, just turn it off and you’re not having to pay for anything.
Our SQL Data Warehouse runs not just in Azure, but can also be deployed and run in an on-premises environment, unlike others.
From a compatibility and feature-set perspective, SQL Data Warehouse provides a full SQL experience and allows you to build super-powerful applications with ease.
So we’re really excited about what SQL Data Warehouse delivers.  We think this is really a perfect opportunity for you to build and analyze data in a really rich way, and it’s going to allow every developer to get more insights from the data they have.
Now, one of the most exciting opportunities, I think, for every business out there is to use the Internet of Things to transform how they build products and how they engage with customers.  And we had some fascinating use cases of IoT solutions built now on Azure.
Ford is adding IoT sensors to all of their vehicles to improve the overall car owner experience.  And they’ve built an IoT back-end solution on Azure to collect and process all of this data, and then they’re connecting it with the customer information that they already store within apps they own inside their own on-premises datacenters in providing a full, complete solution.
Rockwell Automation has partnered with one of the biggest energy super-majors out there, and is basically now running unmanned, Internet-connected gas dispensers.  Each dispenser emits real-time management information, which they can basically then use machine learning on top of to detect anomalies and predict when proactive maintenance needs to be done on the machines.
My favorite example is probably the NFL.  Most teams in the NFL now use the XOS ThunderCloud platform to record, analyze, and share game and player data in near real time during the game.
This ThunderCloud solution runs on Azure.  And in addition to providing real-time statistics and analysis on plays, it also records, encodes and uploads video that can be used for post-game analysis.
Let’s walk through some of the canonical services that you can use in Azure to build these types of IoT back ends.  Using the Azure Event Hub Service, which we released just last fall, you can now ingest and process tens of millions of IoT messages per second.
You can use the Azure Stream Analytics Service, which we made generally available this month, to perform near-real-time analytics on top of these IoT messages.  And you can operationalize it using a combination of Power BI to create rich data visualization dashboards of the stream data.
And you can optionally now store the raw data, or more commonly a subset of that data, inside any of these databases that we run inside Azure, and you can now store the raw data within our new Data Lake service that we’re making available an announcing this week.
Now, this new Data Lake service that we’re announcing today is really a revolutionary way to store and process data.  We built the new Data Lake service using more than a decade of real-world learnings, managing exabytes of data for our own Microsoft Services.
And the Data Lake service enables you to store literally an infinite amount of data.  You can create accounts that create exabytes of content with individual files that are up to a petabyte in size.
And this infinite capacity allows you to keep data in its original form, whether it’s IoT data, log files or any other non-relational structure.
You can then run high-throughput, low-latency analytic jobs to analyze and process this data at any scale.  You don’t have to worry about setting up or managing your own clusters to do this.  Instead, you can focus on the task at hand that you want to get accomplished, and the service will automatically scale out for you and apply the appropriate resources to get it done.
And the service provides built-in, enterprise-grade security support, enabling you to securely lock down control and access to any data that you store within it.
Now, one of the great things about the Data Lake service is that it exposes data using the standard Hadoop HDFS API.  And this enables you to actually leverage any analytics software already out there that supports HDFS.
This allows you, for example, to run standard Hadoop jobs and Hadoop workloads on top of anything stored inside the Data Lake.  You can take advantage and write R applications using our new Revolution R distribution, and be able to now have those scale out and query against literally exabytes of content.
You can also stand up and use VM-hosted Cloudera as well as Hortonworks clusters to access and run analytics stored inside the Data Lake as well.  This give you maximum flexibility and enables you to derive even more insight from the data that you ultimately stored.
So Azure now has, we think, the richest analytic capabilities of any cloud and enables you to build intelligent apps that are highly differentiated for your customers.
This morning, I’ve talked about some of the types of applications that you can do with that, that you can use to drive your business, disrupt businesses or grow profits.
The technology, though, can also be used to really change the world in non-business ways as well.  And one of the things I’d like to do is invite on stage a customer of Azure who is doing just that.  And it’s Just Giving, who basically optimized philanthropic giving campaigns and helped funnel money into good causes.
I’d like to invite Mike Bugembe on stage to talk about what they do and how they’re doing it with Azure.  
 Thank you, Scott.  Great, good morning.  This is what I’m going to talk to you about today.  This is what we’ve built on the platform.  We call it the Give Graph.
It’s a set of complex algorithms that will fundamentally change the way you and I interact with causes that we care about.  It’s going to change the way we give.
But to give you some context, let me tell you a little bit about our company first.  We’re based in the U.K. and we’re the largest social giving platform.  We enable people to raise money and do amazing things for the causes and for the charities that they care about.
Some people decide to do the marathon.  Obviously, recently, people were throwing buckets of cold water on top of their head.  All in the name of charity.
And we’ve been fortunate in having around 23 million people from over 160 countries in the world do this.  And they’ve raised in excess of $3 billion for charity and for good causes.
And this has taken us a lot closer to our goal, which is to ensure that every great cause gets the funding that it requires.
Now, we live in a world where we have billions of people who have that natural desire to give.  And if everyone did that, we would eradicate poverty.  We would put cancer out of business.  Now, our team had the task of trying to understand why that isn’t happening using analytics, using machine learning and getting a real understanding as to how we think and how we make that decision to give.
And our analytics have identified three key things that our product needed to use data for.  The first is that it needed to change giving from being a transactional activity to something that’s far more engaging.  It also needed to be personal, and of course it needed to be social.  After all, we’ve solved some of the biggest problems as the human species by connecting with each other and collaborating.
But at the heart of all of this is that we needed to make giving personal.  Which for us means we need to understand what you specifically care about.  Traditional ways of trying to address personalization, we would use things like look-alikes or collaborative filtering.
But in this space, that doesn’t work.  What you care about is specific to you.  If you care about cancer or beating cancer, I can’t find somebody who looks like you and say that they also care about cancer.  Everybody has something specific that they care about.
However, using machine learning and graph theory on this platform, we’ve managed to crack that problem.  In fact, what we’ve done is we’ve built a machine that does three specific things.  First of all, it understands how you specifically want to give.  Giving isn’t just about money.  It understands whether you want to give time or whether you want to give effort.
Secondly, the algorithm can work out specifically what you care about.  And it also understands that what you care about changes.  It’s a moving data piece.  It’s not static.  It changes as your circumstances change, as your associations change and the more interactive you become.
Lastly, my most favorite part of the algorithm is that it understands how to interact with you, specifically with you, to make giving more engaging and remove those barriers that might exist to stop you from giving.
Now, we couldn’t have done this without the Azure platform.  We’re a small team of scientists and engineers.  And what the Azure platform really allowed us to do was focus intensely on our goal.  We don’t have a team of operations experts who can manage a huge cluster of machines in the cloud.  But this platform was ideal for us.
And these were the components that we used.  And this is how we architected them.  We essentially had three core processes.  We had a batch process which runs nightly, a real-time process, and a process that allowed us to put our APIs in front of the product.
And the batch process is the backbone for everything that we do.  And at the center of it is HDInsight.  This is where we do all of our large calculations.  This is where we built the Give Graph that I showed you earlier.
So, essentially, we take all of our data, we upload it into blob storage, we spin up the clusters and do all of our calculations.  And once that’s done, the clusters are put down and the data is moved onto Azure table storage.
And at the same time, we have a real-time service that helps us keep this product interactive.  It helps providing data to the machine so that it can learn and it can continue to become more effective.  We use F# mailboxes and Azure Service box for that.
And, of course, we have Azure Websites or the Azure Web App, which is where we put our APIs and where the product has access to it.
And all of this manifests itself on the product itself.  This is what our feed looks like.  This is what that platform is powering.  And what’s exciting is that this is where we are seeing giving move from a transactional activity to a more engaging one.  We’re seeing people be far more interactive and far more social, connecting, collaborating about the causes that they care about, the charities that are important to them.
And as I conclude, I can’t emphasize enough how much of an impact this is going to have.  And we’re really in a fantastic position because this platform has allowed us to focus exclusively on our goal to ensure that every great cause gets the funding that it requires.  Thank you.  
  The opportunity to build applications that can change the world has never been so great.  Each of you now has access to cloud resources that were unimaginable just a few years ago.
There’s never been a better time to be a developer, and I’m really looking forward to seeing what you build.  Thank you very much.
  Thank you, Joe, and good morning, everyone.
Now Joe just showed you how to do incredible things with Windows from the little screen to the big screen.  Now I get the pleasure to show you how to do incredible things with Windows on no screens at all with the same familiar tools and skills you already have.
It’s so real being here today, less than 100 days since we mixed holograms with our world.  Less than 100 days ago we showed you how Windows Holographic amplifies what is human about each of us.  Humans live in the real world and we should not be confined to the virtual or just the digital.  We experience life in three dimensions.  We move, we see, and we hear in three dimensions.  Our dreams, fantastical or entrepreneurial, start in the real world.
Windows Holographic embraces this notion of experiencing life in three dimensions by mixing digital content right into your world, right into your life, with more reality than ever before.  Now the truth of the matter is, people, not devices, are mobile.  And we are ready for technology to move beyond devices, to move beyond screens and pixels, and to move beyond today’s digital borders.
Now in January we showed you glimmers of this holographic landscape, glimmers of this more natural way of interacting with digital content.  We introduced Microsoft HoloLens, the world’s first and only fully untethered holographic computer.  And I have to admit, we have been humbled by the outpouring of enthusiasm spanning from consumers to businesses.  And the response we’ve received from developers like yourselves has been remarkable.  On behalf of the entire Microsoft team, thank you.  We share your enthusiasm.
And today we take the next step in unveiling the Windows Holographic platform focused on you, the dreamer, the creators, the Windows developers.  So let’s get started by taking a tour of Windows Holographic.  And to help us with that, please help me welcome on stage one of the creative minds behind holograms, Darren.
Hi, Darren.
  Hello, Alex.
  Now, before we start, let me explain the setup a little bit.  Darren is wearing a HoloLens, and he sees this globe we showed you in January right in his world.  Now we also have this custom camera rig over here so that you can see the holograms up on these screens as if the camera is wearing a HoloLens.
Now when we introduced Windows Holographic, the globe was just a slide.  Today, Darren is experiencing it as a universal Windows app.  And, guess what?  It’s running on Windows 10.  Welcome to Windows Holographic.
This is life with holograms.  And as you can see, Darren has customized his space.  Instead of digging through menus, everything is right where he wants it.
  Yes.  Whether it’s Microsoft Edge, photos or video apps, these are simply universal Windows apps that were placed as holograms.  So whether it’s a slate on the wall or something a little bit more dimensional, like my loyal companion Fang here.  Hey, buddy.  You can customize your space the way you want it.
Now I want to add something to my space.  So I’m going to pull up my Holographic Start Menu.  And I’m going to open up Skype.  I’m the worst at keeping in touch.  So I’m going to take the people that matter most to me and I’m going to pin them to this wall right here.  That way every time I walk into this room I’ll see their smiling faces and be inspired to reach out them.
  We are all creatures of habit and we do different things in different spaces in our home.  This stage, as an example, is modeled after Darren’s apartment.
  Yes.  And this is where I would hang out in my apartment, and surround myself with the applications that I want to access or just check out.
For example, I’m planning a trip to Hawaii in a couple weeks.  So I placed this awesome weather app over here, so when I’m moving around I can easily glance at it, reference it, and understand what the weather is going to be like when I get there, hopefully still hot.
Then if I look up here on the wall to my left, I have a video player.  I simply reach out, air tap, and I’m right in the action.
  Now, what if Darren had things to do around the house?  He shouldn’t be confined to watching just on one wall.  He should be able to take his entertainment with him anywhere and remain hands free as he does it.
  Yes.  So all I need to say is follow me.  Now wherever I go in my house, my entertainment tags along. And when I get to where I’m going, I simply place it, and I can scale it as big as I want. 
Now that’s not something just the video player does; every single universal Windows app has the same capabilities.  For example, I placed a calendar over here, because as Alex will tell you I’m late for pretty much every meeting.  So this makes a guy like me, it makes it a lot easier for me to just check in and see what I’ve got coming up next.
We’re discovering uses for holograms every day.  We know with all you here at BUILD putting your minds towards it, we’re going to be discovering new uses every second.  I hope you have an inspiring time at BUILD.  We’ll see you out there.
  Thank you, Darren.
As you just saw, holographic computing can seamlessly connect the digital world with real life.  This mixed reality grants us permission to reinvent productivity by creating experiences not possible on any other device or any other platform.
Back in January we asked you to imagine an architect walking around their designs while clients review them remotely.  Now the construction industry is a multibillion-dollar industry, yet many of their processes have remained unchanged.  Over the past few months, we have had the great honor to partner with an organization that has been transforming the construction industry for over 60 years.
So let’s take a sneak peek at how holographic computing enabled by Windows 10 is fundamentally changing how they think about architecture, construction, and collaboration.
Holograms are already being sculpted by some of the most creative people around.  Now with this ability to design and shape holograms you have a new medium to express your creativity, to visualize your work and share ideas.  Your digital creations become so much more relevant when they come to life in the real world.  But, that’s just the beginning of what holograms can enable.
Windows Holographics also provides you with a unique opportunity to change how you teach and learn in more effective ways.  On January 21st we asked you to imagine a surgeon learning a procedure without picking up a scalpel.  Since then we have partnered with an institution accustomed to thinking beyond the possible.  And to show us what they have been up to, please help me welcome on stage Professor Mark Griswold from Case Western Reserve University and our team member Michelle.
Hi, Mark.
  Hey, Alex.
  Hi, Michelle.
  Good morning.
  Now, Mark is part of a team from Case Western and the Cleveland Clinic.  We invited them to use Windows Holographics to advance medical education beyond what is possible with today’s state of the art.  Take it away.
  Thanks, Alex.
Today we use a combination of cadavers and medical illustrations to teach students anatomy.  This is a curriculum that hasn’t drastically changed in over 100 years, because there simply hasn’t been another way.  The mixed reality of the HoloLens has the potential to revolutionize this education by bringing 3-D content into the real world.  Now one of the biggest challenges for students learning anatomy is understanding the body in three dimensions and how all the different systems fit together.
Using holograms we can easily separate and focus in on individual systems.  For example, we can focus in on the femur and students can immediately see some of the types of fractures they may one day encounter in the clinic.  Now I can leverage all of these new capabilities while maintaining the important connection with my students.
When we’re both wearing a HoloLens I can see what they’re looking at, what they’re interacting with, I can assess their progress, and they can communicate with me and each other naturally.  For example, I can see if Michelle has a question in class, or whether Gwen has a question while learning remotely.
Now, obviously a cadaver doesn’t move.  This makes it difficult to see the way a living body actually works.  HoloLens doesn’t have this limitation.  Systems can be animated to easily see how things function.  Let’s take a look at the center of the cardiovascular system, the heart.  It’s an amazing organ.  In reality it’s about the size of your fist.  With HoloLens we can easily scale up the heart to let students see minute details.  We can even see inside the heart to see the valves in action.  This is a new way of seeing things and it has the potential to help students understand the structure and physiology of the body in a way that’s just not possible today.
Now what you’ve just seen is a vision of how HoloLens could enhance one single subject.  But, as an educator it’s easy for me to see that it’s not just anatomy that could benefit from this technology.  This could change how everyone learns.  Imagine for a moment some of the other fields that could be changed, for example, chemistry and genetics, art, engineering, and paleontology.  And the best part is we get to help define that future together.  I can’t wait to see what your future holographic developers are going to do with this amazing technology.
Thanks.
  Thank you, Mark.
Thank you, Michelle.
And thank you to our friends at Case Western and the Cleveland Clinic.
From NASA JPL to Trimble, to Case Western, these are just a few of the amazing partners we are actively collaborating with to transform different industries now that holograms have become part of our everyday life.  Now I feel very fortunate to be in this moment in time, all the different pieces are starting to fall into place.
As we enter this decade the amount of processing power you can get into a small form factor for a reasonable price point is just staggering.  Even in the last few years as we developed HoloLens the innovation in optics, sensors and silicon has allowed us to move forward a few orders of magnitude.  Now people used to say computers today can do enough, my apps run just fine, the Internet runs just fine, what are we going to do with all of this extra computing power?  And the answer to that is that we are going to put a different emphasis on it.  New workloads focus on solving brand-new problems.  In other words, we are going to start using all of this power specifically to help us understand humans and the world around us.
So how do you do this with no wires, with no markers, no external cameras, with no phones, and no connection to a PC required?  Let’s learn a little bit more about this amazing magical device that is Microsoft HoloLens.
With Windows holograms our universal Windows apps and all universal Windows apps can be made to work on Windows Holographic.  Everything you have seen here today is a universal Windows app.  Developers, this opens up a new vein of innovation and a new vein of opportunity.  With holograms you’ll have a new canvas to express your creativity.  Your apps can come to life and they can be experienced naturally in the world around you.  But seeing is believing.  So let’s take a look at how portability of experiences, enabled by Windows 10, can change the way makers like you interact with the physical things that you build.  And to show us mixing holograms with IoT, please help me welcome on stage my very good friend Miko.
  Hey, Alex.
  Hi, Miko.
  I’d like you to meet B15.  This year millions of people will use Maker kits like this one to enter robot competitions and learn about electronics.  Many of them will use Raspberry Pi 2, which now supports Windows 10 IoT core.  We were inspired to see what we could do with the same hardware and HoloLens.  So let me show you.
B15, wake up.
Say hello to the real B15. Because every Windows 10 device has APIs for humans and environment understanding, we were able to overlay a holographic robot on top of a physical one.  And one thing we noticed while working is you need your data to be easily accessible.  But adding displays to this frame increases your cost and there’s no way to see all that information at once.  So let me show you how we check on our data.
B15 control panel.
This spatial UI system is a universal Windows app.  I’m pulling the data from B15, making it as big as I need it to be, and placing the words relevant and my world.
  And I love it that Miko didn’t have to actually go back to her desk to do it.  This is a great example of how Windows 10 makes your digital life more powerful by connecting it with your real life.
  That’s right.  You can waste a lot of time tweaking variables on another device before you test.  But, if all I need to do is something simple, like change LED color, I can use a control scheme like this.  So that’s how we envision controls and displays evolving with holograms.
  Now, assuming industrial robots need to find paths safely through their workspaces, let’s take a look at how Miko can help B15 navigate and how holograms can help.
  So B15 sensors aren’t great at detecting obstacles, but the cool thing is they don’t have to be.  My HoloLens can communicate that information.
B15, path finding mode.
  Now with Windows holographics we can scan an environment.  We can queue up movement tasks and visualize the robot’s path.
  So all I have to do is air tap the ground, my HoloLens interprets the 3-D points and tells B15 when to turn and when to move forward.
  Now this is a great example of how portable our Windows experiences can be.  B15 didn’t have to know its environment.  The room understanding comes from Windows Holographic.  But, what happens when the environment actually changes?
  That’s no problem; because I’m running HoloLens I’m always aware of B15.  I can see it updated its route to go around you, and this is critical if you’re working with bigger robots, like those in automotive manufacturing.  You need to always be aware of a robot’s intentions.  HoloLens helps developers understand robots better at any scale or in any scenario.
  This is just amazing.  Thank you so much, Miko.
And nice to meet you, B15.
  B15, say goodbye.  
See you later, Alex.
  Later, guys.
Now at some point in time you get this feeling you could actually be creating something meaningful.  But that feeling is materially different from seeing architects excited about it, from seeing doctors and professors excited about it, from seeing developers like you excited about it.  People outside of Microsoft who start understanding the tools, who start understanding what they have in front of them, who start painting with these brand-new palettes and these brand-new paintbrushes, it’s humbling and it’s exciting at the same time.
It is in that spirit that we have brought hundreds of HoloLens devices just like the ones you saw on stage today all running on Windows 10, so that you here at BUILD can experience holograms for yourselves over the next few days.  
From holographic presentations featuring Skype to one-on-one demos like the Trimble experience I showed you earlier today, and my personal favorite, our very own holographic academy, where you’ll be able to build your very first holographic experience from scratch.  We have a lot to share with you this week here at BUILD.
Now registration for all of this begins after the keynote.  Space is limited.  So make sure you sign up for all of these activities by going to the Web, or simply by using the BUILD app.  The holographic journey starts with you, the Windows developer, and it starts right here, and it starts right now.
And with that, I want to thank you, and let’s welcome Satya back on stage.  Thank you.
  Thank you, Alex, that’s just magical stuff.  Hopefully you get the essence of our ambition with Windows 10 when we say we want to move the users of Windows to move from needing Windows to choosing Windows to loving Windows.
At the core of our company is empowerment, empowering us all.  It’s our mission to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more, and it starts by empowering every one of you, every developer on the planet.
Thank you so very much for being here today and for being at this conference.  I thought we will end today’s morning keynote by playing the music that David composed for us this morning on Staff Pad.
Thank you and have a great rest of BUILD.  Thank you very, very much.
Remarks by Terry Myerson, executive vice president, Operating Systems Group, on April 29, 2015.
  Hello, developers!  It is so great to be back here at Build to talk about Windows 10.
Satya shared that our aspiration is for customers, for end users to love using Windows 10.  Well, we also have this aspiration for you to love developing for Windows 10.
Our goal is to make Windows 10 the most attractive development platform ever, enabling you to build the most innovative applications, applications that your customers never before thought possible, integrate Cortana into your apps, integrate Xbox Live into your apps, giving your customers awards and achievements or bring them to life with the avatar, add natural user interactions to your apps like pen or speech, turn your apps into holograms.
With Windows 10 we’re targeting the broadest device family ever, from devices with small screens like phones to large screens, going beyond an all-in-one PC to our large wall-mounted displays, the Surface Hub, to devices with no screen at all like the Internet of Things or HoloLens.
We’re talking about one platform, a single app, a single binary that can run across all of these devices.
When we look at the search terms in the store and we compare what people are searching for on phones to what they’re searching for on PCs, we see that 40 percent of the search terms are exactly the same.  Customers are looking for your apps in all of these places.
With Apple you choose to invest in iOS or Mac OS.  With Google you choose to invest in Android or Chrome OS.  Windows is the only ecosystem that lets you bring your apps to all of these devices efficiently.
Now, there are many ways to get apps on Windows.  Let’s talk about the Windows Store.
Apps that come from the Windows Store come with a set of promises to the end user, your customers.  For end users applications in the Windows Store will be very easy to discover, not only within the store itself but Joe Belfiore soon will show you how Windows applications can be discovered throughout the Windows experience.
Apps from the Windows Store will be easy and fast to install, and uninstall if you want, and they will never junk up your system.
Commerce with the Windows Store will be convenient and trusted, with a wide variety of global payment instruments, not just the credit cards we use here in the U.S., but payment instruments like Alipay for China, and today we’re announcing carrier billing, not only for Windows Phones but all Windows devices.  And Windows will have the largest carrier billing footprint of any ecosystem, with connections to 90 mobile operators.  Our experience with phones, this is great for our customers that don’t have credit cards but do have phones.
And this is great for developers, because our experience with phones is that in emerging markets application purchases have gone up by a factor of eight times when carrier billing is enabled.  And now it’s available across all Windows devices.
The new Windows Store will offer new business models and ways to monetize for all of our Windows developers, including subscriptions, affiliate referrals, an updated advertising SDK with support for video ads and install tracking, one set of tools, one set of processes for you to reach customers across all of these devices, and engage with the customers all over the planet with reviews and ratings and the other tools that are available in the Windows Store.
And today, we’re introducing the Windows Store for Business.  Businesses and schools can customize the Windows Store, highlighting applications from the public catalog that they want to make more easily discoverable or recommend to their employees or students.
And the Windows Store for Business will support business payment methods like purchase orders, opening up a new vein of opportunity for Windows developers to engage with Windows enterprises worldwide.
Now, to make all this worthwhile for developers we know we need to get Windows 10 to be broadly adopted quickly.  So we started by making it available as a free upgrade for the first year.
And now we’re investing in making it easy for consumers and businesses to adopt Windows 10 worldwide, and today we’re sharing our goal.  Our goal is that within two to three years of Windows 10’s release there will be 1 billion devices running Windows 10.
No other platform version in any ecosystem is available on 1 billion devices.  Current estimates for Google Play KitKat is at a little over 500 million devices.  iOS 8 is lower than that.
With Windows 10 there will be 1 billion devices ready to run your applications.
Now, we’ve already been working with many of you on your XAML apps, embracing this new universal Windows platform, working on doing things that you can’t do on any other platform.
We’re delighted to have companies like Disney, Netflix, Vine, Twitter and so many more working with us to build amazing applications for the 1 billion devices that will run Windows 10.
Let’s take a look at some of the work by these partners.
I thought I’d start by highlighting the work being done by USA Today, which has been a great Windows developer and a great partner.
Today, they have a separate codebase for their phone application and their PC application.  They want to bring these codebases together so they can focus on great quality and great functionality, and then take that application to new Windows devices.
And so here you see the USA Today’s Live Tile from their new universal Windows application.
On this PC it’s great work with touch and keyboard shortcuts.  The application uses our standard platform controls, so it resizes and reflows as the application is resized on the desktop, snapping it, allowing me to do more work.
Now, I can never get enough reading about Duke’s basketball team, so let’s go there, and you can see here that article flows great in this size window.
Now, this application is also using our platform capabilities to automatically store state in the cloud.  So the state of me reading this article is available on all of my Windows devices or other devices that I might want to access the same state.
So now when I pick up this Windows Phone, I have the same binary running here, the same Live Tile.  I run it and the article’s opening up to the exact same place, leveraging the state that was automatically shared to the cloud.  One binary, one codebase, all working across phone, tablet and PC.
Now, USA Today wants to bring their application to the Xbox.  But we don’t do a lot of reading of articles on the Xbox, so they wanted to tailor the application, filter the application down to just video feeds.  So they invested one hour in their universal Windows application codebase, and here it is running on the Xbox, filtered down to just video.
I’m navigating it with the controller, navigates down where I see the same video controls that are available across the Windows 10 platform, navigating down further in the controller and I get recommended video articles.
So with investment in this one universal Windows application they now have phones, tablets, PCs, interactive television, all covered with one codebase and one app.  
So now let’s take a look at the word Tencent’s done with their WeChat application.  WeChat is an incredible phenomenon.  They just crossed 500 million monthly active users, growing 40 percent year over year.  They’ve been a great application for Windows Phone users.  Here they are on my Windows Phone.
Tencent wanted to bring WeChat to Windows PCs and tablets.  So they made an investment in their Silverlight application on the phone.  The team spent about approximately one month, and they now have a universal Windows app that runs great on the phone and will also now be available on the desktop with some tailored experiences for the desktop.
So let’s look at WeChat on the desktop.  Now, on the phone, I don’t know if you noticed, Shen has sent me a message.  I have WeChat installed on this PC, but now we can access that new message from the notification center.
I click on the notification center message from WeChat.  This is the same binary running in both places.  Open the message from Shen asking for the file, and here they’ve done some tailoring to accept drag and drop from the desktop, all with a universal Windows application that’s running across these devices.  
So USA Today and WeChat are just a couple of the many great apps coming to the universal Windows platform.
In a few minutes, Joe Belfiore will join us and show how universal Windows apps are going to enable you to do things you never thought possible on a phone.
And Alex Kipman’s going to join to talk about universal Windows apps you never thought possible on HoloLens.
Now, partners like these are giving us great feedback as they engage across all these devices with the universal Windows platform.  Netflix loves it.  They can deploy their app efficiently everywhere.
The team at Trivia Craft — Crack, my favorite, you know, it’s a great game — Crack, I’m sure you Crack — told us that developing a universal app is four times faster than developing for Android and iOS.
So let me just say thank you for your early engagement on the universal Windows platform, so we can bring your applications to life.  
So that was about new — .  That was all about new universal Windows apps, but today we want to talk also about your current code, your current apps.
Windows has always embraced a wide variety of technologies to build great apps.  And today, we’re going to announce four new ones, four new ways to leverage your existing code and skills, four new ways to reduce the cost and effort, making it easy for you to bring applications to the Windows Store, four new ways to delight 1 billion Windows 10 customers at home, at school, and at work.
Let’s start by talking about the Web.  Now, many of you have websites that provide great functionality to your customers.  Today, I’m announcing that you can reuse your current server-hosted website code and tools, and take advantage of the rich capabilities of the universal Windows platform, to have your website send notifications, to give your website a Live Tile, have your website integrate with Cortana, do in-app purchases, integrate with Xbox Live and more. This will help your websites reach new customers and delight Windows customers in new ways.  Let’s see this in action.
So to demonstrate this, we’re going to use a website, 22Tracks, which deejays across Europe use to exchange their tunes.  It’s a very rich website, uses WebGL, reflows to the browser, resizing.  It’s a great website.
But what they’ve done is they’ve registered their website with the Windows Store, and then I have installed that application on this machine, and it’s going to open up as an application.
The server-hosted Web code can detect whether the code is executing inside a browser tab or inside an application frame.  When it’s inside an application frame, it knows it can call the whole universal Windows platform.
So now when I close the browser tab, the website’s gone.  But now that it’s an app, when I close the app, 22Tracks can now send me a notification.  I click on the notification and I come back to their app.  Likewise, now that 22Tracks can detect they’re running as an app, they can efficiently, conveniently offer in-app purchases to all their customers for the music, leveraging the commerce capabilities of the Windows Store.
So this is just fantastic, letting website developers leverage all of their server-hosted code and take advantage of the capabilities of the Windows platform and the Windows Store.  
So now the second technology I want to announce today to enable you to bring new applications to the Windows Store is actually the most popular technology within the Windows development community: .NET and Win32.
There’s over 16 million .NET and Win32 applications being used every month in the Windows user base, ranging from some amazing games to some of the most important line of business apps used worldwide.  This is a testament to the great work being done by Windows developers.
So I’m so excited to announce that we will be adding support for bringing your .NET and Win32 apps into the Windows Store and take advantage of all of the new universal Windows platform capabilities.  
To show you how this works, let’s use an app that’s loved by customers worldwide, one of the best Win32 applications ever, Adobe Photoshop.
So here you see Adobe Photoshop Elements in the Windows Store.
Now, I shared earlier the promise the Windows Store makes to end users, that applications will be very efficiently installed, uninstalled, and will never junk up your system.  We know at the same time, Win32 applications can do anything to a Windows system.
So we’ve learned from App-V, our enterprise application virtualization technology, we’ve adopted it for the Windows Store, so now Win32 and .NET applications come down from the Windows Store and they run in an isolated way from the rest of the system so they can deliver on that promise to end users to deliver a great end-user experience.  
And so here is Photoshop.  You can see it is the full Photoshop experience, with great performance, and I’ll prove that to you with the full limits of my Photoshop capabilities.  
Helping Scott out here.  So there you go.  But all come down from the Windows Store.
And it’s very exciting to share that later this year, Adobe will be bringing Photoshop Elements and Premier Elements to the Windows Store.
So the Windows Store will have great support for apps built using Web code, .NET and Win32 code, enabling you to use your current codebases, extend them using Windows 10’s new platform capabilities, and delight customers across the 1 billion Windows 10 devices.
Now, the third technology I’m announcing today will enable developers to reuse nearly all of the Java and C++ code from an Android phone app to create apps for phones running Windows 10.  
To make this possible, Windows Phones will include an Android subsystem where an app can be written that takes advantage of the Android code but also the extensions you would write in the Windows platform to really delight the Windows user.
To show you how this works, please welcome to the stage Agnieszka.  
 Thank you, Terry.
Hello.  My name is Agnieszka Girling.  I’m one of the project leaders working on the technology that will enable you to build great Windows apps by reusing a lot of the code you have written for Android.
Here I have an Android device, and on it I am running the Choice Hotels app.  Choice Hotels is the highest app in its category, makes it very easy for travelers to find a great hotel.
Now, I’m going to switch to Windows Phone.  On this Windows Phone I am also running the Choice Hotels app.  This app is reusing the code you just saw running on the other device.
I’d like to look for hotels nearby.  The app is taking advantage of the Windows location API to find hotels in San Francisco, California.
OK, can I have a switch, device switch?  Well, let’s try that again.
All right, as I scroll through the results, you can see that the Windows graphics and touch just work, and the app is running smoothly.  It’s running in the Windows security container to ensure a trustworthy experience for Windows users.
I’d like to go back, and as I hit the back button please note that the app’s navigation is integrated with the Windows navigation model.
I’d like to select a different city.  So I am going to type in Seattle with a built-in Windows keyboard.
So I have just shown you how an app can efficiently reuseits existing code to deliver a great experience on Windows, and in tomorrow’s keynote we will show you how you can light up your app’s experience with native Windows features such as Live Tiles and with Microsoft services.
Thank you.
Terry, back to you.  
  Thanks, Agnieszka.
So Windows 10 is going to enable you to reuse your Web code, your .NET and Win32 code, your Android, Java and C++ code, to build amazing new applications, bringing the code over, extending it, putting it in the Windows Store, and reaching 1 billion Windows 10 customers.
Finally, the fourth technology to build great new universal Windows applications is Objective-C.  
So today, we’re announcing that you will be able to compile the same Objective-C code that’s being used in iOS applications within Visual Studio on Windows.    Enabling you to leverage that code and extend it with the capabilities only found on the Windows platform.  Let’s take a look.
So here in this directory we have an iOS application, Math Dream.  You can see here the Xcode project file for Math Dream.  You can see the NIB and ZIV files for the UI.  You go into the classes directory, you can see the .M files for the Objective-C.
Using the toolkit we’re announcing today, we’ve converted the Xcode project file into a Visual Studio solution.  So let’s open it up here in Visual Studio.
You can see full support for this Visual Studio project Objective-C, great syntax highlighting support that you’d expect from Visual Studio, including highlighting all of the weirdness of Objective-C. 
We’ve taken this application and now we can debug it and execute this tablet app on Windows.  
You can see that this is a relatively sophisticated app that uses UIkit, uses core animation.  On Windows the performance is good but it also works with mouse and touch.  You can do very complex arithmetic, too.  Look at that.    But actually that’s the wrong answer, so let’s adjust this to the right number of apples.  And you can see not only can it correctly do math but this application has been extended to offer me an Xbox Live achievement for doing the proper math equation.  
Now, you might be wondering if this actually works.    Will it work for a more complex app?
Now, usually when we announce this kind of thing, we would say “coming soon.”  Well, in this case it’s different.  We’ve been working with some great development partners on bringing their applications to Windows using this technology already.
And today, I’m very excited to share that this is how King brought Candy Crush Saga to Windows Phone.  The app has four and a half star reviews, 40,000 reviews.  King brought the app to Windows Phone with a very fast time to market, very few code modifications, and it’s a great app.  And now King will be releasing more titles for Windows 10 soon.  
So four is not enough.  There is actually one more thing we’re going to do to help make it easy for you to build great Windows applications, and that is we need to get you some great hardware.  
So we’re going to start today by giving everyone here a brand new HP Spectre two-in-one.    This is a great device.  Compared to a MacBook Pro, it’s thinner, it’s lighter, it has longer battery life, and of course it has a touch display.  And I would encourage everyone here to join the Windows Insider program, engage with us on this platform, and help shape it for your needs, but please do the upgrade to Windows 10 from your hotel’s Wi-Fi, not the Wi-Fi here at the conference.  
So today, we talked about our goal of 1 billion Windows 10 devices, the unique capabilities of the Windows 10 platform, and our commitment to a broad range of technologies to leverage your skills and your current code to build great apps.  And we’ve got so much more to come.
So please welcome Joe Belfiore.  
  Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome Satya Nadella.  
  Good morning, everyone, and welcome to Build 2015.
It’s exciting to be here at Build and in San Francisco.  In fact, I was just recounting, I’ve been at every developer conference of ours since 1991, in fact the very first one as a third-party developer, and after that as an employee at Microsoft, and it’s just awesome to be here.
I know we have a fantastic show lined up for you.  We have lots of things to talk about in today’s keynote, but at the rest of the conference, lots of things to show you, lots of announcements, many, many new things that I think are going to be very exciting in terms of what you will make of them on day one, and what you will do on day two and thereafter.
For me, in some sense, this conference is all about celebrating and challenging the creativity, the ingenuity that you all bring to build new and great things on top of platform innovations that we make available to you.
And that phenomenon is not new.  In fact, it goes back to the very origins of our company.  Microsoft was founded by two developers who had a bold ambition to empower other developers to build new and great things.
In fact, the tweet you see on the screen is the tweet from Paul Allen on our 40th anniversary.  We turned 40 in April.  And these are the first lines of code that Bill and Paul wrote.  It turns out that Bill wrote the runtime and Paul wrote everything else, and there’s this nice comment about we put better errors, so it started at the very beginning.  
And when you look at it, that ethos, a lot has changed in the 40 years since, a lot of technologies have come, a lot of technologies have gone.  In fact, the very first BASIC interpreter was written on a PDP10 with an 8080 emulator that was built so that you could target the Altair microcomputer.
And in the 40 years a lot of devices have come and gone, a lot of technologies have come and gone, as they should.  But what has remained constant is that ethos, that core that we are a developer company and a platform company first.
It is our mission to empower every person and organization on the planet to achieve more.
And when we talk about empowering every person, it starts by empowering every developer on the planet.
What you will hear us talk about in this conference and even in this morning’s keynote is perhaps the broadest lens through which we have viewed developers, development and platforms.
We are going to want developers from student developers to startups to enterprise developers to ISVs to people writing mobile apps to people venturing into virtual reality and mixed reality, all of these developers to come exploit, take advantage of the platform innovation that you will see this morning and throughout this conference.
We also want to make sure that we build bridges for you.  We want you to be able to bring your skills, your technology choices, your languages to our platforms, and then build from there new and great things.  That concept or that approach is something that’s going to be deeply ingrained in everything we do across all of our platforms.
Over the last year, I’ve had a chance to talk to many developers throughout the world.  I met a couple of student developers, student developers who won the Imagine Cup last year from Australia.  They built this fantastic mobile app that made it possible for you to be able to detect anemia in children by just using a simple app and taking a selfie.  And that app now is changing lives in Africa and other developing parts of the world.
I had a chance to meet a middle schooler in the Bronx, a girl who built a robot that could walk the stairs, and in her eyes I could see that that was just the very beginning of what she is going to do.
I had a chance to meet some enterprise developers in Germany working in an industrial equipment manufacturer, and they were fundamentally changing, transforming their business to becoming a software company, an SaaS company.
And so I thought that it’s perhaps appropriate to kick off Build by talking to one such developer.  In fact, he’s a musician who had a dream — and he calls himself an accidental developer, but who had a dream to change how music is composed.
Please help me welcome David William Hearn.  
Hi, David.
  Hi.
  Great seeing you.
  Great to be here.
  Thanks for coming up.  Why don’t you tell us a little bit about your dream, your journey so far?
  Absolutely.  So music notation is probably something that a lot of you in this room haven’t really thought about before, but it really is the written language of music.  It’s almost like a coding language of music, actually.  In fact, it has some similarities with code. You can even write in C# or F#.
  F# is probably better for that.  
  Ah, maybe.
Up until now, there’s been two main ways that you can really write music, traditionally using pen and paper, which is very creative, maybe not that convenient sometimes, or the digital way, which is very laborious to input but very convenient once it’s in that form.
So I really wanted to make something where you could take the creativity and the convenience and smash them together and create this brand new way of writing music.
  Amazing.  Do you want to show us what you’ve built?
  Absolutely.  Let’s have a look.
So StaffPad is handwriting recognition for music notation.  I’ve actually been working on a piece for the last few weeks, a piece for string quartet and piano.  And as you can see, I can use touch to interact with the score.  You can see we’ve got a big score here.  This is no nursery rhyme.
And let’s scroll to the end, and we’ve got a couple of bars left to do.  So I figured we could finish it up onstage.
  Oh, for sure.  You’re talking to a music illiterate, but go ahead.
 Oh, well, I don’t know how to run a big company.
OK, let’s just take the pen and I’m going to start writing in the bars.  So it’s very natural.  The idea behind the app was that if you could write music you should be able to — hey!    If you can write music, you should be able to know how to use the app.  You don’t need to really learn too much.  It’s very intuitive.
And so moving to the next bar, the music notation is recognized and turned into great notations.
  Very cool.  
 All right, thank you.
I’m going to turn these off.  
Fantastic.  This is actually interactive notation now.  So I can add staccato dots, and maybe I should slur some of these two, you think?  Slur means play it like you’re drunk.
  I’m going to get into so much trouble for that.  
Using touch I can double-tap the bar, select the bar and just pull this out.
And this is the great thing about Surface and Windows.  It was really the only platform that we could do this for, because it really understands the difference between my fingers and the pen.  And that’s really key to making this intuitive and natural.
I’m just going to take this last beat, we’re going to erase that using the pen eraser, and I’m going to draw in a string run here.  I’ll pull that up, and you can see there we’ve got a nice flash string run up to the top.
So let me just do one last thing, double tap, copy this down.
  That’s cool.
 Oh, no, we don’t want that.
OK, and now we can play this back. 
And there you go, we finished it.
  Awesome, awesome, awesome.  
What’s been the reaction?  I know that this has been out for a few months, is it now?
  No, just a few weeks.
  A few weeks.
  And the reaction has already been absolutely incredible, breathtaking really.  We’ve heard from people all over the world.  We heard from an 11-year-old composer who’s writing her second opera on the app — not her first, her second, and a 91-year-old who’s fallen back in love with writing music again.  It’s really been the students using it in the classroom, and it’s really just an incredible reaction.  It’s been breathtaking.
  Awesome.  Thank you so much, David.  Thank you.
  Thank you.  
  That’s what’s most striking about today’s developers and all of you, which is one person or a small group of people where a dream and a passion can have such huge impact by taking advantage of these platform technologies. Who would have thought that music composition can be changed with touch and ink?  And that’s what we live for as a platform company.  We want to be able to take inspiration from the apps you build to drive platform innovation.
So today’s keynote is about three major platform transformations and shifts.  We want to talk about first our cloud platform.  We aspire to build an intelligent cloud back-end for the world’s applications running on all devices.
We want to have the capability to manage infrastructure spanning datacenters.  So that means storage, compute and the network.  That’s not just about a datacenter as a computer, but all of the datacenters coming together in support of these intelligent applications.
We want to have rich application services, in particular data services such as machine learning, and democratize the access to those capabilities so that every developer on every platform can build intelligent apps.
Second, we want to talk about Office as a platform.  We want to move far beyond individual applications and their APIs to building a rich graph of data as a platform.
We want you to be able to consume that graph, extend that graph, and we’ll talk a lot about that.
And lastly, we want to talk about Windows.  Windows 10 represents a new generation of Windows built for an era of more personal computing, from Raspberry Pi to the holographic computer, where the mobility of the experience is what matters, not the mobility of the device.
So to kick things off, let me have Scott Guthrie come up to the stage and talk about our cloud platform.  Thank you very much.  
  All right, we’ll move to the next chapter of our platform innovation, Office.
There are three core concepts in the transformation of Office to a platform.
The first one is about the user experience.  We’re opening up the Office user experience for all of your applications in fundamental ways, so that your applications can show up in the context of what a billion-plus users of Office do in Office, create stuff, get stuff done, collaborate, communicate.  We want you to be able to build applications that fit naturally into those contexts.
Second, we want to go beyond single applications, data APIs and data silos to a semantically rich graph of data that is available for you to be able to consume as well as extend.
And, third, we want to have the capability to reason over that rich graph and add intelligence into your application, so that not only does it drive new features, but more importantly drives engagement in your application.
So those are the three concepts that fundamentally change Office.  So we want to give you a quick tour of that so that you can look at what your applications can do to exploit these capabilities.  And for that I just want to introduce Rob Lefferts from our Office team to show you some of this.
Hi, Rob.
  Hi.
  So how about we get started by talking about how we’re moving from Office from us to Office with partners.
  That’s great.  Let’s dive right in.  What we’re looking at here is Word.  This is Office 16, Win32.  And what we see is a solution from DocuSign.  Scott was talking about them earlier.  They do digital signatures.  And they’ve integrated the power of their service directly into Office using a new, modern Web add-in framework.  It’s built on top of HTML5 and JavaScript and communicates the documents through a JavaScript object model.
Let’s switch gears and look at another one.  This is an add-in that we’re building partnering with SAP that makes it easy for me while I’m building a spreadsheet, like my product inventory information, to pull information directly from SAP.  This is built on top of SAP Gateway for Microsoft.  One of the great things about the new add-in framework is that it works across platforms.
So let’s switch over to the browser, and in Excel Online I get to see the same spreadsheet with the same great add-in experience running in both places.
  It’s the same add-in that goes everywhere Office goes.
  That’s exactly right.  And, in fact, let’s take a look at Excel for the iPad.  And what we see is exactly what you want to have.  The same solution, hosted in Excel for the iPad, showing the same add-in running for SAP, and this will be released in upcoming months.  But let me just show you how I could use that to connect to SAP.  I’ll click connect and it does it exactly what you want, which is connect to my on-premise SAP server, pull the content out and deliver it directly inside of my spreadsheet running on the iPad.
Let’s talk about something very different, let’s talk about making a presentation.  And when I’m doing this, I of course want a constant source of high-quality professional photographs that I can integrate into my slide deck.  Pick It is a relatively new company that is building just such a service, and has provided an add-in here that lets me search through the photos in their service and pastes them directly within PowerPoint.  And one of the key things about this add-in model is that it’s a road map for how we’re going to do add-ins going forward.
So let’s take a look at the newest member of the Office family, Sway.  This is a tool for interactive storytelling that runs great on the Web and renders beautifully mobilely, and we’ve integrated a set of services that make it easy for me to pull in content.  We’ve integrated with Pick It, and we will be delivering in upcoming months — ah, live services — we will be delivering in upcoming months the exact same framework and add-in model that runs across all of the end points for Office.  That’s Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook.
Let’s take a look at people working in Outlook, professional users handling and managing all their email dealing with a great deal of information.  They want to stay up-to-date on who are all these people that we’re talking to, and what we’re showing here is an add-in from LinkedIn that makes it easy for me to do that.  It pulls the users off the To and CC line, it shows them to me directly in the context of my email.  So I don’t have to leave the flow of how I’m doing my work.
Salesforce has built a very similar thing that pulls from the To and CC line, but also looks up the companies that is showing up on the mail thread, so I get to see the people and connect to them in Salesforce, but I can see the accounts, and I can drill right into the opportunities and take action from here within Outlook without leaving the flow of my work.
  And it’s been great to be working with the Salesforce team, because they’re really exploiting all of the extensions we have across the entire surface area of Office, be it in Excel or in Outlook or in other areas, and built the business process right into the collaboration and communications infrastructure.  And that’s fantastic to see.
  Absolutely.
Outlook is not just about mail.  Outlook is also about my appointments and my calendaring, and it has all that information in a structured way.  But one of the important things for me is not just being at the meeting but getting there on time.  We’re partnering with Uber to build a solution that does exactly this.  So here is an add-in that Uber has built that I can set an Uber ride reminder to show up ahead of time and make sure that I get to where I need to go.
As we switch over here to the iPhone, what I actually see is I’ve got a reminder from Uber saying “Slide to get a ride.”  So I’ll go ahead and do that.  It brings up Uber and it sets my pickup location.  The cool thing is that it got my destination, because that lives in Outlook.  So Outlook knew where I needed to be, and now Uber knows where I need to go.
  Now that’s great.  So that shows you how applications that you build show up throughout Office.  They extend beyond any single application.
Now let’s talk a little bit about this graph.  How are we building the graph and exposing the graph to developers?
  Yes.  Let’s actually pop it open and take a look at exactly what it looks like.  So this week at Build we’re announcing the preview of the Unified API Endpoint for Office 365 APIs.  This builds on top of the file, mail, calendar workloads that we delivered last fall.  And what it does is make it easy for developers to get to this data in a unified, consistent way.
So we’re just popping open a little API explorer tool that can show us what do some of those requests and response patterns look like.  So what will you as a developer have to do in order to get access to this rich data?  So what you can see is the URLs are pretty simple, graph.microsoft.com version number, and the tenant that I am connecting to.
And this will make it easy for me in this example to query Active Directory to get a list of users.  I’m querying from users for a particular department, in this case operations.  And what I get back is exactly what you would expect, clean, well-formatted, easy-to-understand JSON.  Every developer in the room has a whole toolkit that can parse this and use it to build great solutions.
But, the point is that this is actually a graph.  And so I can go from an individual user to drill into their files.  All I have to do to get to the files from OneDrive for Business is stick /files on the end of the URL and from there I see data, documents coming back from OneDrive.  These are just the files that the login user has permission to see.
  And that’s the powerful concept, which is you no longer are going to different applications for different data.  You’re not going to Active Directory for users and groups, and then to OneDrive for files, but you’re able to traverse the entirety of the graph with these APIs.
  Exactly right.  In fact, speaking of groups let’s pull up another example. Office 365 has a new concept for a unified modern group that brings together the people and the documents and conversations and calendar that they’re having, and we’re exposing that through the unified API.  So I can query the Active Directory for groups and I can navigate through them to find files that belong to those groups.  So here we actually see you stick on a /files and it brings up the files associated with that group, again, trimmed to the logged-in user.
Now this notion of logged-in user is a really common pattern for people building solutions.  So we’ve actually made it super-easy.  There’s a “me” token that you can stick in your URLs to just get back the data for the logged-in user.
  And that’s probably very important, because everything here is permissioned through the policies that you put into AD.  So in some sense the “me” token gives you access for the user using the applications credentials.
  Exactly right, and because now I have access to my information I can go and look at my calendar, just /events on the end of the URL and that brings back appointments that are live in my Outlook calendar, and the same idea to get to messages, /messages and boom, I’m in my inbox coming from Exchange and it’s just that easy.
  Awesome.  So how about we talk about the last concept, which is how do we go from here to really building the richness of intelligence inside of your applications?
  Sure, so this is powered by the Office graphs and the thing about the Office graph is we’ve talked about data, we’ve talked about add-ins, and we’ve really talked about how we can use that to drive a whole other set of insights.  We know who are the people, the conversations, the meeting and the organization, and what we can do with that is provide additional insights to developers.  They can use that in the preview here to query the graph to get information out.  And in addition we’re delivering a first-party app in the shape of Delve that actually provides me every day with information about what am I working on and helps me search and discover the content that my colleagues are using.
  There is something funny going on?  
  I’ll keep going.    OK.  So here I am looking at Delve and what I see is exactly what you’d expect, some cards and contacts that will help me stay up to date on what my colleagues are doing.  So I see an Excel notebook that is coming out of OneDrive that lets me see here’s what my boss built, here are some KPIs, here is an attachment that lives in email, but we’ve been working with partners to imagine what will it look like when we have additional third-party signals coming to the graph, how can they get into this notification stream.  What we see here are opportunities.
  That’s a card from Salesforce?
  That’s exactly right.  This is a card from Salesforce showing the amount, showing information about who owns the account, et cetera.  I can navigate down here to information coming from Twitter, and beneath that we see information coming from Trello.  So if people are collaborating in boards I can navigate directly through and get to that.  And let’s actually scroll down a little bit further and what we see is a purchase order coming from Dynamics AX.  That looks like a super-important one, so it’s great that Delve made it easy for me to take action on it.
  Right.  So this is no longer now information that is inside of the Office Graph that’s based on the data of our app, but people are able to extend the graph with additional edges and nodes that’s all surfacing in Delve.
  That’s exactly right.
  Wonderful, thank you so much, Rob.  Thank you very much.
  Thank you very much.
  That gives you a flavor for how Office is fundamentally changing.  In fact, there’s one other SDK that we are launching in addition to the Office Graph, which is the Web SDK for Skype, where the presence information, where the ability to embed inside of your applications video chat and messaging is now possible.  So you can build a Web app, a mobile app using Skype presence information and Skype embedded inside of your app.
This fundamental change that we are making to Office, this fundamental platform shift of Office where the users, the 1 billion-plus users of Office, are available for you as developers.  The semantically rich graph that is available for you to consume and extend, and to drive additional engagement through intelligence, we believe, is going to change the very fundamental nature of what Office is to becoming really a platform from us and from you together.
I know you all waited very patiently to hear about Windows.  And it’s now time to talk about Windows.
Windows 10, as I said, is not just another release of Windows, it is a new generation of Windows.  It is Windows built for this era of more personal computing.  It’s built where mobility of the experience across devices is what is paramount, not just the mobility of the device.  It’s built such that users can interact with the variety of devices that are going to be powered by Windows in the most natural of ways.  It could be touch; it could be ink, speech, mouse and keyboard, or even holograms.  It is also built with a foundation of trust.  When we talk about more personal, it becomes even more important to know that the data that you are giving the system is being used to benefit the user.  Those are the foundational things that drive more personal computing for us.
But, it’s just not that.  It is a very different Windows in terms of how we deliver it, how we keep it alive.  It’s a service.  We want to make sure that for every developer here you have the widest vibrant user base that your applications can target.
We also have a unified platform; everything from Raspberry Pi to the holographic computer is one developer platform.  That means your skills apply across all of the places Windows runs.
And lastly, it’s one unified store.  That means the economic return for what you do on Windows spans the entire install base and the growing device family of Windows.
And so I’m really excited about where we are on this journey, but I am most excited about what we together are going to do in the coming year with Windows 10.  Let’s roll the video.
Remarks by Joseph Sirosh, corporate vice president, Information Management and Machine Learning, on April 30, 2015.
  Software is eating the world.  Marc Andreessen said that about four years ago.  But today the cloud is eating software.  Software is being delivered as services in the cloud, and most pieces of software are connected to the cloud.  Now the cloud is not only eating software, but it is eating data.  And when the cloud digests software and digests data, it can produce intelligence.
Let me tell you what I mean.  For human history, most of human history, the world was analog.  Once upon a time, in the 1980s, analog data dominated.  Digital data was just being born.  And come the ’90s, you had the Internet, you have client-server computing, you have digital music, you have DVDs.  And the digital data exploded.
But with the Internet one thing very interesting happened, data started to have an IP address.  It became connected data.  It lived in datacenters, in the cloud, PCs and devices, but it was starting to have an IP address.
And fast-forward to today, digital data dominates.  Analog data is going down.  And about half of all digital data is connected.  It lives in the cloud.  It’s flowing in from mobile devices that are connected, the Internet of Things is just starting to emerge.  And there are about 10 zettabytes of it, that is 10 million terabytes.
What about the future?  Look at 2020.  In 2020, we’re going to have 50 zettabytes, 50 million terabytes of data.  The vast majority of that is in the cloud and flowing in from connected devices.  Analog has gone down almost to zero.  The cloud is where the data lives.  That’s where the planet’s data, intelligence, and information resides.
And there are profound implications for developers.  So the best way — so when I talk to developers about this, we tend to have about four conversations.  So developers want to look at historical data and look at it retrospectively.  It’s big data.  You want to analyze it.  You want to report on it.  But then there is real-time data, data that is flowing in over the wire.  And developers also want to analyze that as it is flowing though the wires and get insights from it.  Developers also want to look at historical data, learn patterns from it, and predict the future.  And they want to bring all of this together into intelligent SaaS apps.
To bring this to life, let me tell you a story.  My story is about the connected cow.  Yes, there is such a thing as connected cows.  It has all the buzzwords of today, the Internet of Things, analytics, the cloud.  It’s perhaps the sexiest story in the cloud.  But it’s also about human ingenuity and how this new technology is revolutionizing even some of the world’s oldest industries, such as dairy farming.
So these are the connected cows that I’m talking about.  Look at those pedometers on their legs.  They’re connected to Wi-Fi.  I have one of those in my hand, the cow pedometer.  It counts the steps of every cow on a dairy farm and sends that data to a service on Microsoft Azure.  It’s Fujitsu’s Gyuho, which means “cow step” service in the cloud.
So do cows need to take 10,000 steps a day, too?
But before I give you the answer, let me tell you about the modern dairy farm.  These days every company is a data company, even the ones you least expect.  A dairy farm has all the constraints of a modern business.  It has a fixed herd.  It has a pasture and labor which often is very expensive.  And their output is milk and beef, and they have to optimize that output under all of these constraints.
So what can a farmer do?  It turns out he has two controls.  He can detect health issues in cattle early and prevent loss.  He can also improve cattle production by accurate detection of estrus.  Now if you remember high school biology, estrus is when an animal is ready to mate and goes into heat, when the time is right, when the magic is ready to happen, so to speak.
But how could you detect estrus in hundreds of cows on a dairy farm?
Well, before I tell you, let me tell you about the importance of doing this.  These days, with artificial insemination, the probability of conception is pretty good, it’s about 70 percent.  But detection of estrus has been done by age-old methods.  It’s just really close observation.  And in the best of cases you get about a 55 percent accuracy.  And then the pregnancy rate was about 39 percent.  But, if you could move that detection rate up to 95 percent look what happens, you get a pregnancy rate of about 67 percent, which is a big improvement.  It’s very material for the dairy farmer.
But, this is hard.  Estrus lasts only 12 to 18 hours every 21 days, and it’s variable.  And it occurs like many of these things mostly between 10 p.m. and 8 a.m. when the farmer is taking his hard-earned rest.  So how can farmers tell when the time is right for hundreds of cows?  Could technology help?  Could you develop a heat map of the dairy so to speak?    Well, that’s a question that a farmer in Japan asked Fujitsu, our partner.  Fujitsu engineers consulted some researchers and came up with a very ingenious system, something that was indeed 95 percent accurate for the detection of estrus.  It’s literally the hottest system for detecting heat.
Now this is that service.  Data from the pedometers that I showed you from the cows are sent over the wire to a service on the cloud, on Microsoft Azure, where it analyzes all of that data and from the footsteps of cows detects when an animal goes into heat and sends alerts on the farmer’s phone.  So the farmer knows which cow went into heat and exactly when.
Well, it turns out there’s a very simple secret to detecting when an animal goes into estrus.  Let me explain that to you with a graph.  The X axis is time of night in this graph.  Y axis is the number of steps that cow is taking.  So this is a cow on a normal night sleeping sometimes.  Let’s see what happens when the animal goes into heat.  Yes, the number of steps she takes goes up.  When an animal goes into heat she starts walking around furiously.  And that turns out to be about 95 percent accurate for the detection of estrus.  And the optimum time for artificial insemination for maximum conception rate is 16 hours from that.  And that’s when AI meets AI, artificial insemination that is.  
Now Fujitsu researchers found something else that was very amazing.  There’s a window around that optimum.  If in the first four hours of that window if you performed AI you would get a female and the second, next four hours, you would get a male.  So the farmer now had an amazing control at his disposal.  He could choose the gender of the calf based on the needs of his dairy farm.  Not only that, Fujitsu found that by analyzing the step patterns of cows they could detect about eight different diseases.  And remember that 5 percent false positive rate, 95 percent accurate, 5 percent false positive, even some of that turns out to be very important, because some of it is when the cow jumps over the fence and skips the farm.
Well, it’s an amazing application.  But it’s an application that today every one of you could build in a few days with the platform services that’s available on Azure.  And you can scale that out globally, distribute it, and this would never have been possible before.  So that’s the power of intelligent apps that live on cloud.
Now let’s look at the power of real-time analytics.  Data is always moving these days.  It’s constantly in motion.  Connected data coming from sensors, from websites, from apps in the cloud, from social apps, it’s streaming over the wire.  Developers want to easily process this data and get insights in real time.  So now let’s take a look at an example of a solution that does that on Azure.  So with me is Corom who is going to help me through a demo.  We’re going to create an app that’s going to be a fun engaging demo, and you are going to actually help us create data in motion.
When we started this we want to build a fun and intelligent application, something that would capture the attention of people worldwide.  So we went to the machine learning gallery, and today we have an exciting collection of intelligent APIs on that machine learning gallery.  It’s Gallery.AzureML.net.  All of you can go there.  And yesterday afternoon Harry Shum, the head of MSR, announced Project Oxford to bring some of the amazing intelligent APIs that have been created by Microsoft Research and Bing to developers like yourself.
There are face APIs.  There are image analysis APIs.  There are speech APIs.  So we took the face API.  It’s a really fun API that allows you to submit a picture, it detects the faces in that and it tells you an estimate of their age and gender.  So the URL for this demo is Howold.net.  Now I’d like everyone here actually to take a minute and go to this URL, especially everyone watching online.  Please navigate to this site and take a look.
So let’s take a couple of pictures.  Let’s look at that happy family.  Let’s submit that.  And you will see it identified the faces in the image, the grandparents, the parents, the children.  It looks like it got pretty accurate.  So let’s try another picture.  Let’s take, say, Da Vinci’s Mona Lisa, a painting, and so we’re using the Bing search API to search Bing, get the images from online, and hopefully we can bring Mona Lisa’s image up.  So let’s submit that photo and she’s 23.  Surprisingly when that model posed for Leonardo she was actually about 23.
So now let’s all try your pictures.  Take a picture from your mobile phone, from a PC, especially if you’re watching online, feel free to take a selfie and send it, as well.  Let’s see how it performs.  So Corom, maybe you can take one of our pictures from the desktop.  So that’s my family picture just uploaded at — so it’s analyzing that.  So we can actually see how it’s doing on our dashboard, as well.
Yes, the upload is taking a while, Corom.  So let’s go look at the dashboard and see what people are doing online.  It’s amazing; this is the Power BI dashboard.  John actually showed some of it earlier.  People now from all over the world seem to be coming to Howold.net and that map shows the distribution of people.  So what’s different about this dashboard, by the way, it’s pretty amazing that you’re seeing real-time flowing data being analyzed.  Can you see that graph that just spiked up?  That’s all of you bringing data in motion.
Now let’s peek behind the curtain a little bit and see how we built this streaming analytics and the dashboard.  So the data from the Howold.net website is captured as a JSON file.  There is a — it looks at the face data, the age data, looks at the browser, it looks at the location from which the IP address is coming, a collection of things.  The JSON is sent to Azure Event Hubs.  Azure Event Hubs is a fully managed service on the cloud to ingest data at millions of events per second.  And then we use Azure Streaming Analytics.  Azure Streaming Analytics is a fully managed service for complex event processing.  It lets you analyze streaming data, put complex queries in it, and get aggregates from that.  And then we use those aggregates and display it in a dashboard.
So now let’s take an example, let’s take that dashboard that is there, that trending graph, so that trending graph is the — it shows two lines.  You have the blue line showing the count of females in the faces submitted, in the pictures, the magenta is the number of males, and all developers here, if you have tried to construct a trending graph like this over streaming data I mean you know how hard it is.  It takes hundreds of lines of code, if not more, to set something like this up.
Let’s now go to streaming analytics, the Azure Stream Analytics query, and show you how simple it is.  So Azure Stream Analytics makes it really simple to configure such analytics using just about eight lines of SQL-like code.  It’s just a select statement.  It’s selecting the system’s time stamp as out time, the face.gender as gender, and the count of gender from the streaming input, and then aggregating it over a window over a 10-second interval.  And that’s all there is to it.  And that’s the data that is now being displayed in the Power BI dashboard.
So this is the magic of fully managed services like Azure Stream Analytics in the cloud and Power BI, it lets you analyze real-time flowing data and ambient intelligence around that into your applications.
So now let’s go from understanding the present to predicting the future.  So if we switch the slides, in February of this year, we launched a powerful service called Azure Machine Learning.  It allows you to learn patterns from historical data and predict the future and create APIs in the cloud that can be easily hooked up into any application.
For example, Ziosk is using Azure Machine Learning to produce recommendations on Ziosk tablets on Chili’s restaurants.  We have eSmart Systems of Norway using Azure Machine Learning to actually predict the energy usage in the future and control energy demand.  The Microsoft Band uses Azure Machine Learning for recommendations.  We have companies, more traditional companies, such as Gaffey Healthcare using Azure Machine Learning to estimate when an insurance claim will be paid so they know how to act on that particular claim.  It’s a very powerful service.
So the best way for me to bring this to life is to tell you another story.  For those of you who are watching this from outside the U.S., there is an annual sports event here called March Madness.  It’s the first of the NCAA Men’s Division One Basketball Tournament that’s played each spring with 68 collegiate teams to determine the national championship.  And for Americans we find it as a time to gamble.  We try to predict who will make it to the final four teams, and ultimately who will win it all.
It seems that everyone has a prediction for the winners.  Our President Obama, our CEO Satya Nadella, and Satya’s predictions got a lot of press, because it seemed to be extremely accurate.  Now, to be fair, Satya had help.  Satya had data scientists, and people who knew basketball to help him make his predictions.
But I want to tell you the story of Adam Garland.  Adam is a developer in our Microsoft Office group.  Now, unlike Satya, Bing and Google, Adam didn’t have any experience using machine learning.  He’s just a developer like you and me.  And we had a hackathon going to predict March Madness using Azure Machine Learning.  Adam thought it would be a great way for him to learn machine learning.  So he came to the tool, he played around with the data, and within a few hours he was able to create a model to predict who will predict in a basketball match.
And then, after a few days, he got to be really good.  And not only Adam, but many of the people who participated in that competition ended up predicting much better than the automated algorithms Google used and Bing used, and was pretty competitive.
So these Azure ML tools are very easy to use for developers.  So I thought it might be actually fun to replicate what Adam did, to show you how Adam built that app right in front of you, to actually publish it, publish an API live, and show you an Azure demo calling with a basketball match.
So let’s see how easy it is to create an experiment.  To predict the outcome of a match, whether Team 1 will win or Team 2, we typically need something called a binary classifier.  There are experiments in the Azure ML gallery.  So let’s take this particular one.
This is an experiment you’ll find in gallery.azureml.net.  So we just brought it to the studio, and this experiment is a workflow.  It’s actually really simple.  So it reads and cleans the data.  You split the data into training and test data.  You create a model with that training data, and then you score the test data that you then provide to the model and see how well it did.
So let’s actually run this and see how it performs.  So we’re going to now connect the March Madness data set.  To just get Adam’s experiment, you take all the data from the sample experiment, bring the March Madness data set, and now we actually go and run it.  So that experiment is running.
While that’s happening, let’s look at the data.  So you’ll see, this is data about 12 years of matches.  We have the feeds for each teams, and the final column there, Team 1 wins true or false, is what we’re trying to predict.
So let’s go back and see how the model ran.  So let’s look at the performance.  So that graph actually shows what’s called an auto seeker, but the most interesting number is the accuracy.  You see that simple model performed at the accuracy of 66 percent, not bad for a minute or so of work.  You just put in new data into that existing sample experiment and ran it.
So now let’s see what Adam did.  Adam did a couple of things.  Adam got an algo system called 2Class Decision Jungle.  That’s one of the algorithms in Azure Machine Learning.   He used something called Sweep Parameters to sweep over the parameters of that machine learning model and find the best one.  He also found that bringing in team performance data would be very, very helpful.  So he took the historical data, married it with team stats, and then let’s look at that data.  When you look at it, you will find that he brought in data such as the field goals made, rebounds.  He even found, for example, that team performance from away games was actually a really important predictor of performance, of match performance.  So let’s see how that model ran.
So you’ll see the performance went up dramatically.  It’s about 74 percent accurate.  And now that we have a model in Azure Machine Learning, we can now create an API with it, a cloud-hosted API.  Let’s do that now.  To do that we create a scoring experiment.  This is a workflow that will run inside of a Web service call.  And here’s the magic, it automatically identifies what the predictive model is, identifies the Web service input, and Web service output, and we are now ready to publish this as an API.  We can run it, and when you publish it you will get an API that is live in the cloud.
So let’s see that API now.  Well there, this is the page you get when you run and publish it.  You see that API key at the top, that’s the API key you will use in your REST calls.  We can test this.  We can test this API live in the cloud.  So now let’s take that historic match between Duke and Wisconsin that just happened and see what the API predicts.  So there you go.  The API predicts Duke will win over Wisconsin with a probability of 63.2 percent.  And that’s exactly what happened.
Now you can predict the future and build this intelligence in the cloud apps.  It’s very simple.  You have C# code, you have Python code, those are things that you can use to just call that API.
So now let me move from the demonstration to something else that’s pretty exciting; it’s about the language of data.  Now machine learning is a field of advanced statistics.  And over the last 20 years, a revolution has happened here with the development of Open Source R.  Statisticians all over the world have now started contributing their latest innovation and research as packages in R.  If there is one language that is truly about data, something that puts the power of data at the fingertips of every developer it is R.
In IEEE spectrums rankings of programming language popularity in 2014, R placed ninth after Ruby.  That’s such an amazing feat for a domain-specific language.  So if there’s a single language that you choose to learn today to tap into the power of that cloud, that would be R.  And that’s why Microsoft acquired Revolution Analytics, the company that made R scale to big data and brought Open Source R to the enterprise, making it enterprise grade.
For example, American Century Investments, one of the largest mutual fund companies in the world, uses it to build their quantitative investment platform.  DataSong, a local company, a big data marketing company in San Francisco, uses it along with Hadoop for their marketing performance management and attribution platform.
To bring this story of R and big data to life, let me tell you another story.  You know, we are all big data.  There are billions of letters of genomic data in every one of our cells.  It turns out that each human genome is about 2 gigabytes of information and with the power of R we can analyze all of this data.  And when we plot this set of information against the general population we can actually see some incredible things about ourselves.
So the first human genome was sequenced in the year 2000.  It cost about $200 million and over 10 years of work.  Since then the cost of mapping the genome has come down much faster than Moore’s Law.  It’s about $1,000 to get your entire genome and you can get the most important parts for about $100.  And this is driving an untold revolution.  In the future when you go to a doctor the first thing that they will do will be to map your genome to understand your disease risk.  This will let them treat you based upon your individual genome, personalized medicine.
You will even know the risks you should anticipate in the future and change your lifestyle because of it.  So let’s show that to you with a demo.  Joining me is Mario who worked at Revolution Analytics.  So genomes are analyzed using the language of R.  It has one of the richest libraries for analyzing genomic data.  A thousand people worldwide have contributed their genome to scientific research.  It is public data called the 1,000 Genomes Dataset.  It’s about 2 gigabytes of data per person.  We’re going to analyze all of that data and see their disease risks.  And Mario is going to actually walk through the demo.
Now it’s going to take only a little bit of code, but it’s a tremendous amount of computation.  So it really needs big Hadoop clusters, so we could show the Hadoop clusters that we’re actually showing, the slides.  We’re going to use about eight HD Insight clusters in four Azure datacenters, two in the U.S., one in Europe, and one in Southeast Asia for a total of about 1,600 cores in the calculation.
By the way, they are Linux clusters.  We’re actually running Revolution R on them, and Revolution R is going to coordinate the computation across those 1,600 cores in all of these regions across the world.  They’re actually going to take computation to where the data resides when we do that global computation.  So now let’s see the code.
So only a few lines of R code, this is the code that’s actually used to analyze the genomic data.  It leverages some extremely powerful functions in an R package called Bioconductor.  And let’s also see the code that coordinates the computation.  So this is a piece of the code that coordinates computation on HD Insight clusters across eight clusters, across four data-centers.  Let’s kick that run off Mario.  And let’s see what it produces.
It produces a heat map.  This is a heat map of disease risks.  Each row is an individual.  We have fictitious names on the right.  But, each column is a disease.  So let’s take, for example, the second row from the top, Clair Hickman.  Clair Hickman has a high risk of ulcerative colitis.  And let’s take, say, the third from the bottom, Sophie Albrecht.  It turns out Sophie has a high risk of multiple sclerosis.  By the way, this heat map is an amazing visualization produced by a package called Shiny in R and it lets you visualize things and zoom into these things.  It’s very, very powerful, as well.
So now you’ve seen the disease risk of a population, of the population we analyzed on the Hadoop cluster, and it almost happens in a few minutes.  And it’s pretty amazing chunking through all of that data.  But, what if we could take that R code, publish that as a Web service API.  So you saw me publish a Web service API with Azure Machine Learning on here.  What if I could do the same and create an API that lets you submit data and see your disease risks.
So let’s see the scoring experiment.  This is a scoring experiment in Azure ML.  See that execute R script?  That’s where we can actually copy the R code and publish that as an API.  So let’s do that now.  So Mario is going to copy some of the R code for scoring a person’s genomic data.  Put that into the execute R script and run that experiment.  By the way, as it’s running execute R script shows you how easy it is to operationalize R.  Any R code can be published as an API in the cloud.  And Azure Machine Learning lets you do the same thing, even with Python.  It is the simplest, easiest way to operationalize your analytics code as APIs in the cloud.
So now let’s see, let’s publish the Web service and let’s get that API in the cloud.  Here, that’s the API page.  You got the key.  There’s even sample code to call that API.  But, to test this we actually created — yes, there’s the sample code.  If you click on it you’ll see C#, Python and R code are automatically generated.
So now to call this API and show you the results we created a mobile app.  I’ll tell you about that in a minute.  Now early in April I sent a sample of my saliva to 23andMe.com to sequence my genome.  Last Friday I got the results from that.  And so for the first time I was able to analyze my DNA and see my future.  So let’s do that now.
So let’s take the mobile app, can you all see the mobile app?  So I’m going to log into 23andMe, get the data from that website, it’s uploading the genomic profile.  So you will see a graph that shows the risks.  So the blue bar is the population risk and red is mine.  So you’ll see that I have low risk for gallstones, low risk for asthma, certainly low risk for breast cancer.  But let’s look here at the top.  Look at that very top line.  That red bar shows .36 — I have about 2-1/2 times the population risk for prostate cancer.  And I just discovered that.  That’s my future predicted from my genomic data, R, and big data analysis.  That’s the power of big data and advanced analytics.
So we switch back to the slide.  Big data and advanced analytics can change lives.
My next story is about the connected grid.  For a century the management of power has been by analogy systems, just like the media we were consuming was analog.  But now users are discovering the power of big data, analytics and the cloud.  And the hero of this, the hero of this story, is a small startup from Norway, born in a small town of 30,000 people, and they are reinventing the future of energy management.  And they’re going global with it.  They’re reinventing the grid with the cloud creating great efficiencies through data and advanced analytics.
To tell you that story, let me welcome Erik Asberg, the head of development of eSmart Systems to the stage.
Erik, welcome.
 Thank you, Joseph.
So let me tell you about eSmart Systems.  We accelerate energy systems, we optimize energy investments, and we minimize carbon footprints through better, faster energy decisions.  Like many of you, we are in the business of disruption.  We’re taking an industry that has been operating in the same way for over 100 years, and we use technology to radically rethink the way we approach it.  Our disruption is directed at the business of energy, and we started with a pilot project in Norway three years ago.
So when we started our goals were to reduce power grid investments by increasing the station factor of existing grid capacity.  We needed detailed predictions of load and power generation.  And we needed to take advantage of IoT and big data because smart meters and sensors are a prerequisite for our predictive analytics.
So the big question was, how are we going to go off and do this?  Are we going to spend millions of dollars and thousands of personnel in datacenters?  For us, this was an incredibly easy decision.  We leveraged Azure from the very beginning.  And what makes this so amazing is that we made this journey of changing the business of energy without acquiring a single server.
So there’s a look at the eSmart Connected Grid application.  All the houses that you see here are equipped with smart meters and sensors.  And we use machine learning to identify potential congestions in the power grid.  We control consumer flexibility to avoid substation overloads.  And we use both short-term and long-term predictions to control heated floors and water heating through home automation.  eSmart and Azure Machine Learning use real data to learn for each specific area.  And we take this information and we make it available on your phone with consumer apps managed by Azure.
Every part of the power grid is unique.  There is no system today that is able to adapt to this uniqueness.  eSmart Connected Grid and Azure ML totally changed this reality.  This is truly revolutionary.
So we started two-and-a-half years ago with no employees, no revenue, and by the end of this year we’ll be over 40 employees, and over $50 million Norwegian Krones in revenue.  I couldn’t be happier to be partnering with Microsoft and Azure.  And I want to say a big thank you to Joseph for having us here today.
  Thank you, Erik.
It’s an amazing story.
The cloud amplifies startups such as eSmart Systems.  It gives them the power to go global.  It gives them the power to build applications that revolutionize entire industries in a very short period of time.  In the future, all of the planet’s power generation, power grids, and power consumption will be optimized with real-time data and data analytics.
And so with the power of the cloud some even really small companies like eSmart Systems are able to make that dream come true at a speed that no one else can.  That agility, by the way, that agility is a hallmark of the cloud, and that’s its magic.
You know, the cloud turns hardware into software; software into services, fully managed services; and data into intelligence.  It makes you smart and it lets you free.
Thank you.
Remarks from David Treadwell, corporate vice president, Operating Systems Group, on April 30, 2015.
   Good morning, Build.  So at Build, we’ve been talking a lot about our conversations with developers.
Now I’d like to tell you about a conversation that Terry and Kevin Gallo and I had last summer with one well-known developer, a guy named Bill Gates.
We were reviewing with Bill our plan for making Windows 10 great for developers like you.  As you might imagine, a review with Bill is always a big deal.  So we were well-prepared, but were also nervous.
One of the points that I made is that we’ve been getting lots of feedback from people like yourselves that they didn’t like one thing about the modern platform in Windows 8, and that’s that it really only supported full-screen applications.  No windowing.
Full screen is great on a smaller screen like a tablet, but many people like large screens, multi-monitor setups.  I love the three-monitor setup that I have.
So I told Bill one of the things that we’re doing in Windows 10 is we’re bringing back this fine feature from 1986:  resizable, overlapping windows for apps.  
And Bill paused, he looked at me kind of intently for a second.  And then he said, “Wow, that’s a really great idea.  You know what we should do?  We should name the product after that feature.”  
So I told him that the joke in the engineering team is that we really should have called it “Window 8.”    
True story, happened just like that.  And that story does show something important.  While it is valuable to have experiences that span multiple devices, we as developers must put the user at the center of these experiences.
What works great on a tablet may not work great on a huge, modern desktop monitor.  This important idea from our conversation with Bill carries through both of the developer conversations that Kevin and I are excited to talk with you about today.
First, how can Windows 10 enable you to provide a continuum of experiences across device types that put the user at the center?
Second, how can Windows 10 help you take the code that you have today and reach over a billion Windows users with more-personal computing experiences only possible on Windows?
Let’s start by discussing the first one.  With Windows 10, the Universal Windows Platform now lets you reach the entire family of Windows devices.  From laptops and desktops to tablets, phones, HoloLens, Surface Hub, Xbox and even Raspberry Pi.  All with one amazingly flexible platform.
Whether a device has a large screen, a small screen, or even no screen at all, a mouse, keyboard, touch, a game controller, pen, camera, sensor, you name it.  The universal Windows platform gives you a way to exploit the abilities of the device and create more-personal computing experiences for your customers.
We’ve made improvements across the board for developers.  It’s now easier to design, debug, develop and distribute your app.
Last year here at Build, I told you about how universal Windows apps could adapt one design across devices or tailor the design to each device.
The Universal Windows Platform and Windows 10 makes this even easier.  There’s now one design language and one control set across the platform.  This gives you a predictable, consistent toolkit for creating your user experiences across all Windows devices.
For example, the pivot control, which originated on phone, is now available across devices in a way that works great on each one.
The Universal Windows Platform and Windows 10 includes brand-new controls, too, like a fully featured calendar control.  Controllers work across screen sizes with mouse, touch, keyboard, pen and now even game controller right out of the box.  And all of the controls are accessible to all users.
The one design language and one control set make it easy to adopt your apps for common scenarios.  Things every app designer needs to handle like window size and input type are handled automatically by the platform for you.
For example, menus appear with mouse-optimized or touch-optimized presentations depending on how they’re invoked by the user.  But you can write the code just once.
Universal Windows Platform and Windows 10 gives you more power to tailor to each individual device as well.
The new adaptive triggers feature lets you respond to changes such as window size and automatically adjust your layout all in markup.
Beyond just size, you can tailor based on input, orientation, availability of sensors, app services or pretty much any other change you can detect.
You can even create a totally custom XAML view for each device, all sharing common code.  Last year, I also told you about how you could share a common code for a universal Windows app across phone and PC.  With the Universal Windows Platform and Windows 10, you can now literally write to one universal API and produce one package to reach every device.  It’s incredibly straightforward as well as flexible.
Using feature detection and API contracts, you can take advantage of any device-specific APIs while still writing the overall apps to the one universal API.
The Universal Windows Platform is really just V10 of the same modern platform you’ve been using on phones since Phone 8.1, and on PCs since Windows 8.  Your code still works, your concepts still hold true.
You can continue writing apps for the Universal Windows Platform in your language of choice, whether that’s C, C++, C#, Visual Basic or JavaScript.
The Universal Windows Platform brings together the best of Windows, Phone and Xbox.  Now you can access Cortana in Action Center on the PC.  You can print on the phone.  You can use Xbox Live services on every Windows device.
And there are tons of new things in the Universal Windows Platform as well.  DirectX 12, Holographic, Active Pen, Windows Hello.  Over 2,500 new platform features, over 8,000 new functions unlock new capabilities for your apps.
Now, I’d like to ask Kevin Gallo to come show you how to use the Universal Windows Platform to build an app that reaches every Windows device family.    Go get ’em.
  Thanks David.  I’m excited because today I’m going to be able to give you a lap around the Universal Windows Platform.
What I’ve done is written a single application that runs across a plethora of devices I’m going to show you today.
Now, I’ve decided to focus on a home remodeling application.  I was inspired because my wife and I started a project in our home.  And as we were working with a firm to go through this process, I kept thinking about how I could streamline and improve the experience that they had between the firm and us, the customer.  And really, also, with the device family we have with Windows, there are a bunch of things they could do that would be unique and they could differentiate from their competitors.
So let me just dive right in here and talk about this application.  So it has five phases.  It has a design phase, a planning phase, a capturing phase, organizational phase and then kind of this last phase, which is they present the final product. I was trying to ultimately trying to enclose that.
So for this design phase, I think, the best device I could think of was kind of a creative sketching device, which is a Surface Pro 3.
So here I have that running.  And you can see on the left-hand side I have a split view UI here at the top.  I have the five phases that I talked about.  And on the right-hand side is a canvas for me to draw on.
So I’ll just start drawing.  And you’ll notice the beautiful ink support that we have with the Universal Platform.  And I can go draw my room here and, you know, I’m actually not very good at sketching, but it all looks beautiful with this ink, low latency, and you see it’s very fluid.  This is all built on the new DirectInk APIs that we support on the Universal Platform, and it’s all hosted inside of an Ink canvas.
But I wouldn’t be the one who really was doing the initial design.  Instead, I would have gotten help from a designer.  So we can also save and load ink.  And when it loads the ink, this is real ink, this is not some image that can’t be modified, because we want to collaborate on it.
So here I’m going to move my pen to selection mode.  And I’m going to draw a lasso around that.  And then I’m going to use my finger.  This app is aware, it knows that when I’m using my finger, I’m in editing, I’m not drawing.  I can also draw with my finger, but here I’m going to differentiate between pen and touch.
And then I can go and say, you know what?  I really want my entryway to be a little bit bigger.  So I can add my creative — whatever creative I have to this application for us.
So let me go show you the code that we wrote to create that lasso.  So I’m going to hop on over here to Visual Studio.  And what you’ll see here is this is my XAML from my design pane.  And so all I had to do was add this ink canvas control that’s new in the Universal Platform.
So once I have this in here, then I can wire up some code to create that lasso.  So let’s go look at how to write that code.
There are really three parts that I have, three event handlers that I need to do.  When I first press when I want the selection, and as I move the pen, I get another set of events.  And then I release it, I need to go perform the operation.
So let’s start with the code for creating the lasso on my press.  So when I press, I’m going to create a poly line.  This is the line I’m drawing for the lasso.  I go set some attributes on the line itself.  I add the first point.  And then I go and I say for the canvas I want this to be a selection versus the actual part of the canvas drawing.  The ink canvas is smart enough to know the difference between selection and drawing on the canvas itself.
Then I’m going to go here when I move it, and all I do is add another point every time I move.  And that’s nice and simple.  And then when I release it, I need to process it.  And so, of course, never forget to add the last point so it looks right.  And then create a bounding rec here.
What I do is I get the poly line that I drew around it, and I ask the ink canvas to give me all the points that are within that poly line.  And that creates a bounding rec.  And then right around that, I draw that bounding rec, that’s all I had to go do.
So pretty straightforward, little bit of code here, and I have a great selection and a great experience on this device.
Now, this is not the only device that supports pen.  And we know that universal applications run across many devices and any one that supports pen will support it.
So here, we have the largest of our pen-enabled devices.  This is an 84-inch, 4K Surface Hub.  So let me go load the same application.  And so this literally is the same binary running here on the Surface Hub.  And I can go and I can draw beautiful, fluid ink.  Build — I shouldn’t have done that, oh well.    You know, can’t spell.
But I can load the same exact thing here.  All very fluid, beautiful ink, all with the same application.
But this is not just for drawing.  It really is a phenomenal collaboration device.  And having this in the showroom would be a great place to interact with their customers and to kind of not just draw the sketch, but also begin to plan the trip.
So the next phase is going out, going to different stores, and looking at different materials, carpeting, flooring, countertops, and deciding what you want to do.
So here in this phase we’re looking at a map.  And this is a built-in map control.  If you remember from yesterday, Joe showed you our map app.  And our map app is using the same exact map control that is available to every developer using the universal platform.
Now, this is a very rich control.  I can go move it around, I can stretch it, I can actually do a tilt view.  All of this works offline.  I also have a 3-D aerial view built in.  All you have to do is change the mode and say you want an aerial view.  But I’m going to move back here.
So a map is not very useful if you can’t put anything on the map.  So we also have the ability to pin points of interest, or in this case stores.
So I’ve set up a little filter here where I can go choose what type of store they want.  So they have a list that they work with and partner with.  And, you know, I typically like more modern stores, my wife likes traditional.  But since she’s not here, I win this time, we’re going to go look at modern stores.
Mileage may vary.  So you’ll see that I also have a list here because I want to actually see what they are.  And then the points of interest show up on the map.  All I had to do was data-bind that list to both of these and they show up.
So now I’m going to hop on over here and show you the code that I wrote to create those points on the map.  So here I am back in my Visual Studio.  And I’m going to go to my trip XAML right here.
So all I had to do was add a map control, set some basic zoom levels on it, and then create a list box, data-binding the stores that I was going to have here in this list box.  And then that’s all I need to do with my XAML.
Then every single time I do the drop-down and I choose which ones I want, whether I select all of them, I get an event handler here on my click.  And let me just pop in the code here.
So I do some simple processing right here.  You know, go through, this is pretty simple, just go see the checkbox, create some queries, you know, which of the stores I wanted.  And then I just go and I update my observable collection that’s data-bound, and then I update that, and it automatically goes and shows points of interest and the list.  Very straightforward, easy to add, easy to optimize.
But now once I’ve gone and I’ve sort of planned my trip, I want to go take photos and see the different furniture and carpets, you know, nice, optimized fashion, just kind of walk around and go.  And it’s kind of heavy to go lug one of these big things around.
So let’s go from our largest device to our smallest device, which is our phone, and it’s the most portable, so I can bring it with me.
So here, I’m going to launch the same exact application.  And what you’ll notice is it’s automatically adapted its user experience to run on the smaller form factor and look appropriate on this device.  Basically, the map is now at the top and the list at the bottom, the menu is now in overlay mode.  All of that, very straightforward.
So let’s go see here — go into capture — and you’ll see here we have a new camera API that allows you to go into the preview mode and take a picture.  And this conveniently located end table over here is a perfect one that I think I’ll put maybe in my living room.
So I’ll just go, I’ll take a picture of that.  And I’m able to go say, hey, you know, tell my wife I think this would be great for our — maybe our bedroom, living room or something like that.
So now let me go show you the code that we wrote to build that adaptive user experience that we’ve been talking so much about at this conference.
So I’m going to pop back here to the XAML I have in that planning page.  So what I didn’t show you above this is right here, right above the map and the list, they’re inside of a relative panel.  Relative panel is a new layout container that we’ve created that really provides a lot of the magic behind the adaptive user experience.  It allows you as developers to either dock items inside of it to each other or to the side, top, bottom, and give you a lot of flexibility in setting attributes.
Above this, I’ve set up a few visual state groups with adaptive triggers that David talked about.  And so I have two states.  One, when it’s between zero and 599 pixels, and then when it’s 600 pixels and above.  So my narrow state is that smaller one.  So basically my adaptive trigger says, hey, when it’s zero, basically less than the other one, it will go through a bunch of setters.  And what these setters do is it makes the map go above and the list below and then take the full width of the screen.
When it’s 600 pixels, this adaptive trigger will fire and apply these setters.  And these setters do what you see on the screen over here, the map on the left-hand side and the list on the right-hand side.  And then they take up the full height.
So here you set up a bunch of adaptive triggers based on the size or any other attributes and adapt the user experience very straightforwardly.  This is what provides all the magic.  Relative panel plus adaptive triggers plus the visual state manager.  And that gives you all that richness that you’ve seen in all these different user experiences over the last few days.
So now that we’ve taken the photos, and we have a bunch of those that we collected, it’s really about arranging those photos and deciding you want to create storyboards for different rooms.
Now, when I think about going and creating a storyboard and kind of manipulating lots of different pictures and photos.  I think a desktop is a much better device for doing that, use a mouse, my keyboard maybe to type things.
So I’m going to move over to my desktop and show you the same exact application running here.  What you’ll notice in this organized space, first of all, is we’re using a pivot.  As David said, we’ve added pivot now to the desktop.  This is a great user control to be able to view the rooms and then be able to assign different things to different rooms.
So I can pivot between each of the rooms and I just have to create storyboards for each of these.  And it works very nicely with touch as well.
And then I think the right way to do this is really to use a drag-and-drop metaphor.  I’ll go to my living room and say, “You know what?  I don’t really like this.  I’m going to remove that.”  So you just right-click, that works natural.
Then I’ll just drag in another one and say, “You know, I want this instead.”  And so here are the floors that I think would be great for it.  I’ll go to my master bedroom, say I think — fireplace?  Anybody think I should have a fireplace in my master bedroom?  I think it would be great to have a fireplace in the master bedroom.  I think it would be great to have a fireplace in the master bedroom.
So I’ve dragged that in there as well.  So now I am able to basically add a few things here.  But from the desktop, it’s not just about the single application.  It’s about using multiple applications and really multiple windows, like David said.
So I’m also able to support drag and drop between applications.  So here we have the photo application that’s built in, but you could also use the file explorer.  So if you had something on an SD card, or if you had a Win32 application, all of those would work as well.
So we can drag in.  And this will go, take this bitmap that I had, or this JPEG, I think it is.  And we’ll go and import it in here and add it to the film strip at the bottom.  It allows me to use the palette that I’m choosing from for my rooms.
So now I’m going to go back to Visual Studio to show you how I implemented all of that drag-and-drop functionality.
So I’m going to move over to my organize page.  And here’s the code behind that I’ve got.  So I have a handbook called Grid Drop.  So whenever I drop it onto that grid, this fires.  It’s the same function that fires whether or not I dragged it from inside the app or from outside from a different application.
But I get different content.  When I drag it from outside the application, I got a bitmap or I got a JPEG or some sort of image format.  But when I dragged it from inside, I had already one that I had defined in my collection there.
So I detect those in two different ways.  So when it comes in here, it’s one of the — you know, if it’s storage item, then I’m going to know it came from outside.  So let me drop in the code here and show you how I add it to the list of furniture.
So I go and I find — enter any items.  And then I go and get the bitmap, I import it.  So whatever format, we have a bunch of decoders built into the platform and they will automatically decode it.
Then I have three different attributes on every furniture item, which is a name, a description, and then I have this ID that I have.  It gives it a unique identifier for every piece of furniture.  And I actually use that later on so that I don’t have more than one copy because nobody wants more than one copy of everything.
And then I set the image.  And then all I do is add it to the list of captured images.
If I actually am dragging it from within the application, I have some code here I’ve written, here I pass — the way I do that is I reference just the unique identifier of the furniture.  And then I want to assign it to a specific room in the pivot.
So I get that ID that was passed in during the drop operation.  Then I go ask which of the pivot tabs — those are the three rooms that I was having remodeled — it was in, and then I just add it to the list of captured images for that room.
So very straightforward, I was able to use drag and drop between applications or within my applications as a great way to build an experience that felt natural for someone using a mouse.
So now once we kind of get through this phase of, you know, we’ve kind of assigned and created storyboards for each room, what we also like to do is kind of get — you know, kind of do a slide show.  How do I get a feeling for what that room’s going to feel like and the characteristics of that room?
So here I’m going to go back and get this slide.  We have a slide show mode.  If I hit this, it will cycle through all the photos of captured images for that room.  So I can get a feel for the aesthetic and say, “Yeah, do they all match or not match?”
Now, while this is great to do for my room, I think it’s great also for this customer.  I was thinking, wow, if they could build some kiosks and have some of these pre-done, you know, some area of their showroom that says, OK, here’s the kitchen, you know; over here here’s the living rooms, you know; here are the different type of aesthetic like traditional. They can have these dedicated kiosks that would kind of advertise, you know, some of the ways that their aesthetic works, and could attract more of their customers and excite them, and give them maybe some ideas.
I think the best way to do that is with some dedicated devices.  So I suggested we use a Raspberry Pi 2 with Windows IoT core running on it, because I can run the exact same application.
What you see here is a Raspberry Pi, and I have a proximity sensor hooked up to it so you can tell if someone walks over to the room, I can give them a custom experience of how did they do that.
So let me show you here running because I have one running here.  So when I walk in front of it, you’ll see it will detect me, I’m here, and it will start the slideshow.  It will start rotating through several of the images.
And then as I move closer, it will say, well, I know they’ll closer, so I’ll get denser.  And even closer, goes even more dense.  When I move away — good, I’m glad it worked.    It’s always nice when they do.  And it will just turn off when I’m not in front of it anymore.
So that will be great, and the nice thing about it is since it’s the Universal Windows Platform it runs on those devices as well.
So let me hop over and show you the code that I wrote to talk to that sensor.
So let me move over to my sensor code here, and so that’s a little bit of special code there that in the past if you were running on anything other than Windows 10, you would have had to go write a driver and you’d have to talk to this special bus, and they had a bunch of stuff for it.  It was a fairly complex amount of code.
But with Windows 10 we now directly support talking to these various different buses.  And so here I’m talking to an iTC bus.  And so what I need to do is in my function here, the first thing I need to do is enumerate that devices that are on the bus.  Then I will establish a connection, and a lot of this information comes from the device.  Got to read the manual.  You know, you can try and guess the parameters here, but typically you read the manual and get the SDK for it.  And then set up a timer that will go and sample that periodically.
Now, once I have all those samples, then I can go hook up, you know, how close I was and, you know, how fast it changed.  And then I can re-create that behavior.  Very straightforward, easy code now that we have support for all these buses in the Universal Windows Platform.
Now, once we’ve kind of set up all these things in the showroom, the most important thing is the presentation.  They’ll go off, they’ll finalize it, they’ll do some sketches and then they’ll come back with a design.  And they’ve got to close a deal.  They want the best presentation that they can possibly set up.
So we think really the best way to present that is on a large-screen TV, because we all watch our home remodeling shows, don’t we?  Great, everybody watch those?  And they’re always on our TV.  So that’s kind of the best way to go present it.
So here I have chosen to show this on an Xbox One running on the TV here that you can show on a TV.  And so I’m going to run the application.  And again because it’s part of the Universal Windows family, it can run any app that was built to the Universal Windows Platform.
And so I’m going to go into presentation mode here, and here we’ve got a sketch of a 3-D model.  That’s the room and so you can go present that and they can look around and, you know, see different rooms and whether they liked them or not.  And sure, it’s a little void right now because I’m really not very good at designing, but nice, great experience.
You know, but I was thinking, if you want to be the best one out there, you want the best experience for your customers, there’s another device in the Windows family that will provide even better experience.  Can you join me in welcoming Felicia from the HoloLens team out here to show you this same exact app running on the HoloLens?  
And so what you’ll see here is the same app that we wrote runs on the HoloLens, because Windows Holographic is Windows 10.  And so here we have the same exact model, and she is able to look at it, walk around it, look at the flooring.  See it, looks a lot nicer than it did on the Xbox.  And kind of just look around this and get just a great experience using this same exact application.
Now, of course, you know, we probably would have gone and built a more customized experience, something that she could be immersed in and walk through it, and that will be all great, but I want to show this exact same app running to show you that a very simple app can be moved over to the HoloLens just as easily as any app can move to any other device family.
 Thank you, Felicia.  I appreciate it.  
So what I’m going to show you is the actual code that we wrote to make that work on the HoloLens versus what we had on the Xbox.
So before I jump into that, I want to explain a little bit about how the camera works.  In HoloLens the camera moves all the time.  Whenever the person’s head moves or tilts or they move around, you must keep up the camera or the object will not look correct.
In the past, the camera’s been controlled by the developer or the program in most cases, but here it’s controlled by the end user.
And so it’s also a stereoscopic camera.  You have left and right eye.  Whereas on the Xbox it’s a flat 2-D.  So the camera on the Xbox, the 3-D model is the same, it’s the same exact 3-D model, but the camera was a fixed 2-D camera that would take it, create an image from the three-dimensional object, and then show that on the screen.  On here we’re going to have to keep updating it with the left and right eye and update the parameters.
So simply on each update, so this update gets called whenever she moved or looked around and tilted.  And I need to go update the left and the right eye.  So I’ll read those from HoloLens and I’ll update those parameters in my rendering loop.  And then I need to go update the rendering resources and the shaders based on those new camera positions.
So this goes and now creates an interactive experience where she can walk around and see and interact with that model, so fairly straightforward for a very simple application.  Obviously for some of the more advanced stuff we saw yesterday it’s a little bit more of an investment in code, but then you get a lot more benefit for the customer.
So I’ve kind of gone through a lot of devices and shown you the same exact app running all of them, but the goal really being that it was centered around the user.  They were able to use that app with the right device that made sense for the task and the part of the operation that they were doing.  And they can provide, this company can provide a great experience for their customers and really to differentiate versus the competition.
Thanks.  Back to you, Dave.  
  Great job, Kevin.  One app across all the devices, it’s really pretty remarkable.
Visual Studio 2015 makes it easier not just to develop your apps but to debug them as well.
The improved XAML designer makes it easy to review and adapt your UI for each device.  You can jump between phone, desktop and other views of your same XAML layout inline.
The new live visual tree lets you select, inspect and edit elements in real time in your running app.  It’s like browser F12 tools for app development; it’s so cool.
Visual Studio pushes the state of the art in diagnosing performance issues by allowing you to identify performance issues without even leaving the debugger.  You can see how long code takes to execute through perf tips.  You can visualize your app CPU and memory utilization through the CPU and memory graph.  All this without having to switch and run a separate profiling tool.
Windows 10 makes it simple to distribute a Universal Windows App, and offers more powerful insights into your app’s usage.  There’s one submission process for all devices.  There’s one set of certification policies to go through.  No other platform makes it this easy to distribute your app to such a broad range of devices.
New features from the store let you analyze your usage and monetize your apps.  App insights are integrated right into your apps in dev account, enabling you to answer questions like how many users are getting stuck in a level of a game, how is a specific feature actually being used.
Campaign attribution lets you compare the success of your app marketing strategies and get your data within a few hours, so you can adjust your strategy in real time.
So that’s how the Universal Windows Platform on Windows 10 helps you design, debug, develop and distribute your app.
Those of you that have already bet on the Universal Windows Platform can benefit from all of that in Windows 10.
For those of you who don’t yet have Universal Windows apps let’s talk about how we’re going to help you get your code to the Universal Windows Platform.
We all know the best apps are the ones developers have poured their blood, sweat and code into, the whiteboard sessions working through your app’s design, the late nights hunting down and fixing that gnarly bug, the excitement and anticipation of pushing out each flight.  It’s not just your code but all that has gone into your code that ultimately makes your app what it is.
At Microsoft we live and breathe developers.  We recognize this fundamental truth:  Your code is the soul of your app.
And that’s why we’re so passionate about building Universal Windows Platform bridges that let you start with your code no matter where it was born, and bring it to the Universal Windows Platform and store.
The first bridge that we’re going to talk about today is how you can bring your Web code to Windows 10.  There’s a new Web rendering engine, Microsoft Edge HTML, that’s built for the modern Web.  It powers both the new Microsoft Edge browser that Joe showed yesterday, as well as Web content in Universal Windows apps.
Microsoft Edge leaves behind all of the Internet Explorer behaviors, all the behaviors specific in Internet Explorer that have been built up in the last 20 years.  And it has over 4,200 interoperability improvements to ensure that the Web just works.  For developers this means less time fixing up your Web apps to work across browsers.
Microsoft Edge HTML also features over 45 new Web standards, including HTTP 2, Web Audio and a bunch more that you can see here.  This is just a snapshot.  We’ve been doing our Microsoft Edge HTML planning in the open, with new features coming to Windows Insider builds each month.
While improving interoperability and adding new features to Edge HTML, we didn’t forget to pay attention to performance.  On the Jetstream benchmark created by Apple, which simulates complex Web applications, Edge HTML is over 1.5 times faster than IE11.  Beyond that, it’s also ahead of the latest 64-bit browsers.
Next, on Google’s Octane benchmark, created by Google, Microsoft Edge is over twice as fast as IE11.  And again Microsoft Edge leapfrogs into the lead ahead of the other 64-bit browsers.  Rest assured that great Web performance will continue to be a priority for us.
Beyond making the Web run great on the browser itself, Windows 10 provides a powerful new path for sites to become apps.  With Windows 10 you can reuse your existing website code and create an app that points directly to your URL.
You don’t need to rewrite your server code into packaged client code.  You can access Universal Windows Platform APIs directly from the Web code that came down from your server.  And you can distribute the app you’ve made in the Windows Store.
This new path is fully integrated into your existing Web workflow.  You can continue to use the same tools, libraries and services that you use today. You can continue to deploy to your servers to make updates.
Kevin, show us how to make a website into an app.
  Great, thanks, Dave.
So I have here a website that I’ve built, and I’m going to show you how I’ve made it into that hosted Web app here.
So first, I’m going to show you the site running in Microsoft Edge.  It’s a flight arcade app, flight simulation, kind of cool to play.
And so here I’ll just go start and you’ll notice here that it’s a beautiful looking app, you know, great graphics.  It’s also got great audio because audio’s got to be there in every game to be cool.
But this audio here is actually using that Web Audio.  And as you hear me throttle up and down, it’s actually a single audio file that we have that we’re using Web Audio to modulate.
But, you know, I’m really not very good, my team told me not to fly, but I’ve got a game controller here, and we’ve hooked this up to the new gamepad support that we have in Microsoft Edge HTML.
And so I’m able here to try and let’s see if I can — I like to fly fast and loose, but, yeah, not very good.  So we’ll kill that before I go crashing into the earth.
Now, there’s a couple other features that I wanted to add that really weren’t available on the Web platform.  One is integration with Xbox Live.  And so here I’m going to launch the same app, the same site, but hosted inside of an application.
So I’ve already deployed the application here, and when I run it, it logs me into Xbox Live.  I have my cached credentials from the machine, and automatically just logs me right in.
The second feature that I wanted to go add is Cortana integration, the ability to launch this application using Cortana.
So I use Sublime to edit, and I also use Git as my repository.  So what I’m going to do here is edit the code.  I’m going to submit it to Git.  It will publish it back up to Git, and now I have it automatically deployed to my Web server.  I’m not going to reinstall the application, I’m just going to rerun it, and automatically it’s got all that functionality, with no update, no ingestion process or anything like that.
So here let me un-comment the code, save, adding Cortana support, wait for that go to work.  Here we go.  And now I can go to Cortana and say, Flight Arcade, go to waypoint Alpha Bravo.
  OK, going to Alpha Bravo in Flight Arcade.
 And so you can see here that I was able to launch the application using Cortana, go to a certain point that had a deep link inside, I had set that up automatically, and it did also that integration with Xbox Live.  And, of course, my team set it up so that by doing nothing I can get an achievement.  Everyone heard that, everybody gets an achievement doing nothing.  
So there you go, very simple, able to go do that and continuing the developer workflow for Web as well as developers at the release.
Back to you, Dave.
  Thanks, Kevin.
Let’s shift gears, to use a Guggsism.  Was anyone here at the PDC in 2003 when we introduced WPF?   How about 2000 when we introduced Windows Forms?  Still a few hands.  Let’s go way back, 1992, Win32?   All right.
Later this year Windows 10 will provide a bridge for you to the Universal Windows Platform and store.  Apps written to these classic platform technologies will be able to be packaged and deployed with AppX.  You’ll get the same fast, safe, trusted deployment as apps written to the Universal Windows Platform.
You’ll be able to distribute these apps via the Windows Store.  You’ll be able to call even more of the Universal Windows Platform APIs directly from your existing code, Live Tiles, notifications, Cortana and more.
I’m going to turn it back over to Kevin to show you how to use the Universal Windows Platform APIs from your existing code.
  Thanks, Dave.
So, of course, since I’ve written to all these platforms, I’ve shown you Web, I’ve shown you Universal Platform.  Now I’m going to show you a WPF application.  So let me run it here just to give you kind of a look at it.  It’s a very simple application that I’ve written, but basically it’s a personal trainer application that allows me to track information about things that I eat, my workouts, my health information and a bunch of different things.
And what I want to do here is add two specific features.  One is a very simple feature, the ability to just pop a toast.  And I want to show you just how simple it is, to show it’s not a lot of complex work just to call one of the new Universal APIs from a WPF application.
The second is one of our more complex ones.  We’ve added a feature called App Services.  This is the ability for Universal Applications to provide services to other applications so that they can call them and they can basically work together on different data and different services.
So the first thing here is when I click the launch button, I just want to pop a toast.  So it’s very simple code.  It’s three lines here.  First you’ll notice that I had added some name spaces up here, otherwise it wouldn’t compile.  These are just the Universal API name spaces that I use.  Then for the toast I go, I get the XML for it, I create a new toast, and then I say show toast.
Let me run this code.  And so when I click “launch” this will pop what we call an Interactive Toast.  This toast actually allows me to open an application from it.  So what I did is, I popped this here, and the XML said, open the Microsoft Health application.  So I’m going to click on that, and it actually opens this applet here.  This is a sample app that allows you to gather information from the Microsoft Band.  And as I’ve been wearing it for a while, and so it’s tracked my heart rate and different things that it tracks.
And so it has also an app service that we’ve implemented.  And so what I want to do is go to call that app service to get all of that information from the last week.  The nice thing about App Services is I don’t need this app running to be able to talk to it.  So I’m going to close the application, and then when this calls it, it will just directly connect to the application in the background.  So here is my quick handler for my start button that I had in there, and I’m going to pop the service here — the code here to talk to that service.
So the first thing I do is I establish a connection.  I do a strong connection here.  I want to know that I’m talking specifically to that application.  So I have a grid here and an app service name, and then I just establish the connection.
The next thing I want to do is send it a message.  So I want to send it a message to get the past week’s data.  So I send it this message here, I wait for the service, I do the wait here.  I send it asynchronously.  And when it’s done it comes back.  I update my user interface with the data that I got from it.  So again, very straightforward and not a huge amount of code.
So here I’m going to hit “start.”  So it will take a few seconds, not even, and then it goes, it talks to that app service in the background, and it’s pulled that data and integrated it directly into my application.
So I’ve showed that you’re able to do very simple things with a few lines of code, or you can do one of the more complex things integrated with these App Services, a brand-new feature with the platform coming in Windows 10.
Back to you, Dave.
  Thanks, Kevin.
Now let’s talk about the bridge we’re building to help you take your Android code and get it to Windows.  You can reuse the existing Java or C++ code you’ve written for your Android app.  You can continue to work in your existing tools, even using Android Studio to produce the app for Windows.
When you make the app for Windows function calls and even services brought to deliver the correct Windows experience.  You can update your code to take advantage of key features of the Universal Windows Platform, like Live Tile.  You can distribute your apps through the Windows Store to phones running Windows 10.  Let’s take a look.
Yesterday, you saw how you can start with code you wrote for Android to create an app for Windows that integrates with Windows Shell features like keyboard, touch and navigation.  Today I would like to show you how starting with your Android code, you can integrate with some more advanced Windows capabilities.
This app, Lose It!, empowers people to live healthier lives and achieve their goals through rich experiences and insights about their lifestyle.  This version of Lose It! running on a Windows 10 phone was built starting with the original Android code base.
All this talk up on stage it’s like exercise for me, I’m sweating a lot, it’s kind of fun.  So let me log this exercise.  You can see I have stage talk as a regular exercise in addition to running and bicycling.  We’re supposed to be up here about 45 minutes.  We’re going to be about that by the time we’re done.  We go ahead and save.  Now we’ve got stage talk logged as an exercise.
Terry and I, sometimes we’re in competition over exercise.  So I’m going to share this stage talk workout that I did with Terry.  This app is using the Windows share contract, instead of the default Android experience.  I’ll click into messaging, I’m not sending it to him, but you can see how it brings up the Windows experience for sharing.  This is just one example of how Windows code — Windows apps that reuse Android code can interact with other Windows apps.
These apps can also use key universal platform APIs like Live Tiles.  If you look in the upper right on the screen you can see my start screen is a live tile for this sample app Timber, that’s timber with a B as in bravo.  It occasionally changes states.  Timber is another Windows app that was also built starting with an Android code base.  With just a few lines of code it was able to integrate a Live Tile.
Apps can also integrate with Microsoft cloud services with minimal effort.  Here Timber is showing me a map of my favorite national park.  Maps are one example of cloud services that modern apps expect and use.  It was trivial for the developer to invoke Bing Maps in place of Google Maps when running their code on Windows.  Part of the bridge we’re building for Android code will include a rich SDK for Microsoft services in Java, to make it easier for developers using Android code to build a successful Windows app.  And as far as tooling, I’m not going to show you this right now, but there’s a session later on today where you can learn how to reuse your current ID and workflow to build great Windows apps from your Android code.    That’s a big step for us, in case that wasn’t obvious.
Now let me walk you through the Universal Platform Bridge for your iOS code, as well.  It lets you import an Xcode project into a Visual Studio solution, while sharing the exact same source code files across the two projects.  You can work in the familiar, powerful Visual Studio experience to edit, debug, profile and ultimately build your Windows app.  You have full access to the API set the platform provides, including things like Cortana.  And you can integrate C and C++ code in with the same project.
You’re producing a Universal Windows App that you can deploy to the Windows Store.  Let’s check it out.  Here we have a directory with the source code files for the Math Stream project that Terry showed yesterday, same exact Objective C files.  In the command line interface we’re going to run a little batch file and what this batch file does, it runs the code that’s going to do the conversion of the Xcode project to the Visual Studio solution.
If you watch in the Explorer Window over here a bunch of new files showed up, including the solution file.  Double-click on it; we’ll bring up Visual Studio.  And we’ve created this Math Stream project from the Xcode project.  It still has the original Objective C code from the iOS application and you can see it in the Visual Studio view.  Simple F5 will build and run it.  And for a simple app like that, that’s all it takes.  Here’s the app running, the same one you saw yesterday.  We can add the apples, simple arithmetic application.
But now let’s take a step and bring this one step further.  We know that great Windows apps also want to take advantage of all the compelling, unique Windows features we’ve been talking about in the Universal Windows Platform.  So let’s actually do that.  First we’re going to add a couple of files that we’ve already written into the project, these two files.  And then what we’re going to do is we’re going to make a couple of small modifications to this source code.  You’re not going to enjoy watching me type source code, so I’m just going to cut and paste this from the popular Notepad application.
All right, now when we rebuild this project it will rebuild it with the changes for the new interactive notifications.  This is the same concept that Kevin showed with Band, but now we’re going to have an interactive toast added to this particular application.  F5 to run it, now what we’ve done is if you do a math operation that results in 10, we like the number 10, it brings you this interactive toast down at the bottom right.  And what we can do is a compelling feature of unlocking division inside the application.  So we can have all four basic arithmetic operations in the app, six divided by three is, in fact, two.
So that’s how you can add unique universal Windows platform capabilities to an existing iOS Objective C application.  All right, thanks for your attention.    That was all a look at how you can take your Universal Windows Platform Bridges to take the code you have today, no matter where it was born, bring it to Windows.  Then you can build experiences only possible on Windows across all our family of devices by taking advantage of unique Windows features like Xbox Live Services, Cortana, Interactive Notifications, Live Tiles, adapting and tailoring your UI, inking, sensors, holograms, and much, much more.
I’m psyched to see what you all do to change the world using the Universal Windows Platform.  Thank you very much.
  Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome Corporate Vice President Brad Anderson.  
  All right.  Good morning, good morning.  How you doing?  Hey, it’s been a great morning.  We’ve seen what the future of end-user computing looks like and what that experience is going to be like.
Imagine if you had all those tools and capabilities that Gurdeep and Julia just demoed in your offices today, how much more productive would they be?
Well, I’m going to spend some time talking about what the future of IT looks like and answer that question that many of you asked me, which is in this mobile-first, cloud-first world, how does the enterprise architecture that we deliver have to transform?
You know, every business in the world is transforming right now.  We’ve talked about our ambitions.  We’ve talked about our areas of focus.  And the key thing to remember here and where we view on this is you are at the center of all this innovation.  You are how it gets out to the users.  You enable this.  You empower.
So what I’m going to talk about is the work that we’re doing that builds the intelligent cloud and how this comes together in a way that really allows IT to drive the transformation.
I’ll tell you, I believe right now is the best time ever in our history to be in IT because it’s you who are going to lead this transformation in this new world of cloud first and mobile first.
Now, as we’ve been working on how we build the intelligent cloud, there are a set of attributes that we think are just fundamental and core to this: Got to be trustworthy, got to be flexible, it’s got to be integrated, and of course it’s got to be intelligent.  It has to deliver insight to you on a continual basis.
So let’s look through each one of these one by one and talk about the innovation and the things we’re doing in the area specifically.
Now, it’s interesting, security is the No. 1 concern in enterprises today, No. 1.  The attacks we’ve all read about have certainly elevated this conversation up in the board rooms of every single company.
And you know what’s interesting?  More than 75 percent of all these attacks come down to weak credentials or compromised identities.
And these attacks are morphing, they’re changing.  They began with basically a world where individuals were trying to just create mischief.  Then it became about creating profit.
Today, the attacks that we are seeing are all about causing disruption, IP theft and damage.  And, certainly, as we all watched what happened with Sony where the employees and the customers were threatened, it turned into terrorism.
And so as we think about where this goes and what our users are doing, our users are working in a world that is rapidly expanding.  They’re working on more devices, they’re using more applications, they’re interacting with more people.  And you know what?  This is good for business, but it also comes with risk because a compromise anywhere in that network could actually compromise a significant portion of the network.
So one of the challenges that all of us have as IT professionals is how do we create this environment that is empowering for our users?  It’s rich, it’s engaging, it’s empowering.  And at the same time, balance that with the security and protection that we’re chartered with.
This is a place we’ve got to get the balance right.  And as we think about what the modern architecture is that all of you have to have implemented, it has to focus on this specific area of balancing empowerment with security and protection.
So as we think about what your modern architecture should look like, let me describe to you what I think it looks like on endpoint enablement and on user enablement.  It all begins with the devices that your users are using.
From those devices, as your users go to access corporate content, that should all be governed and managed through your identity solution, which is Azure Active Directory.  And with Azure Active Directory, we enable you to stretch that identity that you’ve invested in for years with Active Directory out to the cloud.
That then also gives you the way to also be able to authenticate and manage the core applications you use from us, your internal applications, from our partners.
Then the Enterprise Mobility Suite comes in, and EMS gives you that way to manage all your devices, all your applications, do it in a way that is empowering to your end users, but delivering for you the security and protection that you’re chartered with.
Ladies and gentlemen, this is the modern architecture for enabling your users on modern devices and giving your users that work environment they’re looking for in this cloud-first, mobile-first world.
Now, this is how you’re going to deliver that rich, engaging experience.  Let’s go into details now about what we’re doing to help you protect it and secure it.  We believe in a defense-in-depth model where you want to protect in as many layers as you can, while at the same time assuming that you’ve been breached.
And so we’re going to walk through these details, but you need to protect your devices.  You also need to protect your applications, OK?  The market refers to these as mobile device management, mobile application management.  You have to do both.  But you can’t stop here.  You have to protect your files, and really, MDM and MAM is all about data protection.  And most importantly, you have to protect your identities.
So these four layers of protection — device, apps, files and identity — have got to be an area of focus that you’re going to spend on, and what we’re going to deliver you is an integrated way to give you a view of all four of these.
So let’s spend some time drilling into each one of them.  Let’s start with the devices and let’s start with Windows 10.
Windows 10 has been designed for the enterprise and it’s been designed for the kinds of attacks that we see today.  Throughout the event, you’re going to learn about capabilities in Windows 10 like Secure Boot, Device Guard, Passport and Hello Windows.
This enables you to be able to ensure that your devices are secure.  And with these capabilities, you can actually eliminate the need to even have your users use passwords any longer.
But you get this incredible experience now where your users get all the things that Joe showed you with all the benefits and all of the applications and capabilities that Gurdeep and Julia showed you, and then you have a way to manage it.
And so let’s actually start taking a look at some of these pieces.  Now, as I set up some of these demonstrations here, the first thing that I want to talk to you is the fact that Windows is using an incredible diverse set of scenarios from your Windows Phone that’s being used as a personal device, all the way to a device that’s used on an assembly line or in an operating room.  And in some of these environments, you want to have a lot of control over these devices.
So let me introduce you to Device Guard in Windows 10.  Now, what Device Guard allows us to do is actually set policies about what software is allowed to run on a particular device.
For example, you may say that only applications that come from the Windows Store are authorized to run on my device.
So what you’re looking at here is a Windows 7 device.  And I’m going to go actually walk through a common attack that we see.  I’ve received this email, it looks like it’s from my IT department, and it’s announcing there’s a new expense app.
When I go click on that, it looks all legit to me.  Now, what I want you to watch on the right-hand side in Action Center, when I click on this download now, what’s actually going to happen is there’s going to be some code execute, and I want you to watch what happens on the right-hand side as this code executes.
My firewall was just turned off, my anti-malware was just turned off, this device is now vulnerable.  This happens in your organization every day today.
Now, let’s actually show you this on Windows 10.  Same exact scenario.  I click on “download now.”  Run.  Watch the right-hand side.  What has happened here is Windows 10 has actually come back and said this is not code that’s authorized, this is not code that’s approved, this is not from an approved vendor.  And it actually never allows the code to run, keeping your devices secure.  That’s Device Guard in Windows 10.  Do you like it?  
Now, also coming in Windows 10, you’ve got a full mobile device management set of capabilities that will cover all of your devices from your phone to that large screen that Julia showed you, and of course all this integrates with the Enterprise Mobility Suite and Intune as well as Config Manager.
OK, so we talked about mobile device management.  Let’s move up one layer and now talk about application management.
And on these mobile devices, mobile application management is really about being able to separate your corporate things from personal things on these mobile devices, and then apply policy protection to your corporate assets.
Now, over the last couple of months, we’ve been releasing updates to all of the Office Mobile Applications.  So today you’ve got Word, Excel, PowerPoint, OneDrive for Business and OneNote that have all been integrated with the conditional access capabilities of the Enterprise Mobility Suite, as well as the mobile application management capabilities.
Now, one of the things that has been very consistent with your feedback, you’ve loved what we’ve done in terms of providing that data leakage protection, but there’s one app every single customer has asked about.  What’s that app?  It’s Outlook.  Every customer that is using these capabilities has said, “When are you going to release the new Outlook that has been MAM-enabled and conditional-access-enabled for the Enterprise Mobility Suite?”
Well, here it is, let’s take a look at it.  So what you’re looking at right now is I’ve got an iPad.  And on my iPad, I’m just going to go ahead, I’m going to bring up Outlook.
So as I bring up Outlook here, this is just a version of Outlook that’s coming through your enterprise store.  Let’s see here, we’re having a hard time getting it to come up.  Let’s see if we can fix this, everybody.  Let’s see if this brings it up.
OK, we’re going to come back to this, it looks like.  If in the back you figure out why we’re not being able to project it.  If you want, we can switch over to the backup if you want.
OK, well, I’m going to go ahead and move on, and we’re going to see if we can get back to that.  Or we can bring the camera up on stage here.
So let me describe to you what we’re going to show you here.  The Outlook application has now been updated to embed the mobile application management capabilities of Intune.  What that allows us to do is put policies that allow us to protect the data.
So watch what I’m going to do here.  I’ve got this email that has now come into my inbox from Brian.  There’s a paragraph there that I actually want to be able to reuse.  So I’m going to copy that.
I’m now going to move over to Word.  Word is also a corporate application.  And when I go to do the typical things that I do, like for example go paste that in, you’re going to see that, sure enough, paste works.  It’s just like I would expect it to work.
But now I’m going to go, I’m going to move to a personal application like Twitter.  And as I go and create a new tweet here, when I go to paste, notice what happens here.  When I go to paste, the paste option is never shown to me because what’s happening is it’s actually protecting the data and saying, “I’m going to contain the corporate data to only be used inside of corporate applications.”
Now, if I go back to Outlook, I’m going to go back in and show you one of the new things that we’ve added.  So I’m able to provide data leakage protection, but Office and all the Office Mobile Applications are one of these applications that gets use both in my personal life as well as in my corporate life.
And so what every one of you have asked us as you’ve started to use these capabilities is:  How can you enable your users to use Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, all the mobile applications from Office in both their personal life and in their corporate life?
Well, we’ve also updated the capabilities in Intune to now be multiuser aware.  So let me show you what that looks like.  I’m going to go here in Outlook and I can actually now switch between my personal email and my corporate email.
So I’m going to go to personal email.  And when I go and create an email, and I go to paste the content, what you’ll see here is paste is not allowed to happen because that’s my personal email and the data leakage protection capabilities are preventing that.
But if I come back in and switch back into my corporate email and do the exact same process, I create that email, I go to paste.  And what you’ll see here is because it’s a corporate application, I see paste, and I’m able to paste that content in.  OK?  Data leakage protection with Outlook.    Yeah, thank you, thank you very much.
So what that gives you now is that ability to be able to have that rich, engaging Outlook experience.  And your feedback on this Outlook application has been phenomenal with quotes like this where you have The Verge saying it’s the best Gmail app.  The best Gmail app is from Microsoft.  And I love it.
So with Microsoft, you get all the mobile applications now enabled to participate in this data leakage protection solution, being able to separate your corporate content from your personal content.
The next question you’re going to have is:  When is Skype for Business coming?  Q3, OK.  So it’s coming soon.
Now, I want to show you this exact same experience on a Windows 10 device because Windows 10 has done some phenomenal work to integrate data leakage protection just natively into the operating system.
So I’m working on the exact same document here that Joe showed you a couple of minutes ago.  And I’m just going to copy some of this information here.  I’m going to copy a sentence and show you the data leakage protection capabilities of Windows 10 in action.
So I’m able to take this.  I’m now going to go right into Twitter as well.  And I create that tweet.  But when I go to paste, look at what happens?  And this error message is being worked on, but what’s unique about Windows 10 is it comes back and says, listen, the operation that you’re trying to do is prohibited, it’s not allowed because we don’t allow sharing between personal applications or corporate applications and personal applications.
But what I love about what we’ve done in Windows 10 is it’s empowering and it’s given me guidance, it’s helping me.
So it says, listen, if you actually have a business need and need to override this policy, you can click on “audit” and it will actually allow the operation, but it will be logged for audit purposes.
And so you have this fantastic data leakage protection natively in Windows 10 that you can policy-enable, but you get that right balance of empowerment with security and with protection.
The other thing that’s fantastic about this shipping in the operating system is the applications, Win32 applications as well as modern, universal applications can all participate in this DLP solution without having to be wrapped and without having to have any work done with an SDK, they all just natively work with it.
The data leakage protection in Windows 10, ladies and gentlemen.  
All right, now, I want to show you one additional kind of tool that you have in your tool belt here for application management.  Now, as we get to Windows 10, we’re going to encourage you to distribute your applications through the Windows Store and the integration that we’ll do with tools like Config Manager.
But you may have some applications, maybe they were written a long time ago and you’re not going to update it and you have applications you’ve historically used Remote Desktop Services for.
What I wanted to give you a view here is a completely redesigned Remote Desktop Services that’s being delivered from the cloud.  This is called Azure RemoteApp.  And what this gives you is the ability to be able to upload any Windows application up into Azure and then remote it down to your users anywhere in the world.
So what I’m going to do here is I’m actually going to launch — this is a Windows application.  This is actually the CFO dashboard from Dynamics, which is a Windows-only application.  It’s all touch-enabled now.  I get this beautiful experience.  It’s all rich and alive.  I can click on the pie chart and everything adjusts for me.
But this gives you that tool now to be able to deliver all your Windows applications to all your users anywhere in the world without building out an infrastructure and a pay-as-you-go model, leveraging the global infrastructure of Azure.  OK?  Highly recommend you go check that out, Azure RemoteApp.
So we’ve now talked about devices and applications.  And one of the things to make sure you understand is Microsoft is the only organization in the world that can deliver you this rich, engaging experience for your content creation, your collaboration, all your communications and have that all secured through this data leakage protection across Windows, iOS and Android.
But now let’s transition to files.  And, really, MDM and MAM is all about data protection.  And we’ve got a view here that data and files should actually be self-protecting, that files should actually inherently be aware of who has rights to open them and what rights they have.
So let me show you how this actually works.  So I’m sitting here, I’m just going to walk through an everyday process and show you how it’s been uplifted to now help the user protect.
So I’m going to send an email to Bob, OK?  Bob, if you notice here, is outside my organization, so Bob’s a partner.
Now, when I go to send this email, I’m going to click on this bar here in the toolbar, share protected.  And I’m going to share this in a protected manner.  So it’s just right in the flow of how users do it.
So what I’m going to do is, I’m going to say Bob has viewer rights only.  I want to get an email any time Bob opens that file.  And I want the ability to be able to instantly revoke access if need be.
Now, when I click on “send now” something really fascinating is happening.  That metadata is now being written into the file and will now travel with the file.
And you’ve got data that could be useful, really has to travel, has to be mobile, has to be shared.  But now with the fact that we can embed the access privileges into the file itself, the file becomes self-protecting.
Now, let’s walk through and show you what it actually looks like now.  So I’m going to go over to Bob’s PC here.  And what you’ll see happen here is over on Bob’s PC, I’m going to get an email.
And as I get this email, it’s going to give me a link to where I can open that file.  And someone send an email from the audience, I love it.    Love it, love it.  You’ve got to love technology, you’ve got to love people in the audience.
Now, for some reason, that — there we go, just took a little while to come through.  So it’s come through.  I’m going to go ahead and open up that document.  And what’s happening when it’s opening is it actually is actually verifying that I’m a valid user and that I’m actually authenticated to Azure Active Directory.
If I come here and click on “view permissions” you can see that, in fact, I’m a reviewer, everything looks fantastic.
But what else happens when that file is open, it actually sent data, telemetry back to the service that I can now use.
So let’s go back into my email.  And what you’re going to see here — love it —  is I have this link in an email.  If I click on this link, it takes us to what is new today, which is this document tracking site that allows you to actually track how the documents I share are used.
So I can see here that this document was viewed seconds ago by Bob.  So it’s just fantastic.  Let me show you a document that I shared a while ago.
So if I come and take a look at this, you know, last week I shared an early view of some of our quarterly reports.  I can see here that that document’s been opened 40 times.  And if I look down here, the names all look familiar to me, I recognize those names.
But somehow, this individual, Brian, and I’ve never heard of Brian before, has tried to open this document nine times unsuccessfully.  Let’s see what else this gives me.
I can take a look at this from a timeline view.  So I can actually get a view of, you know, the days, successful, unsuccessful and all this is real-time information for me.  I can get a view of this as a map.  So I can actually see where in the world green successful open, that red unsuccessful open, and I can actually now drill in and actually see exactly where in the world individuals trying to access my documents are and when they tried to access it.  
As we think about providing data protection, this is the way it has to be.  For your most-secure, most-sensitive data, you want to have the file be self-protecting.  And in the case where I need to revoke it, you know, I’m actually confident that Brian is never going to be able to see the contents of that document because the document knows who is able to open it.
But if for some reason I actually have the need to be able to open that document, I can come back to here and I can just really click on “revoke access.”  And when I click on “revoke access” when I hit “confirm” nobody else in the world will ever be able to open that document again.  I retain control of the sensitive information within my company.
Azure RemoteApp — I’m sorry, Azure Rights Management Services, the new capabilities, that document tracking side that went into general availability this morning.
Now, let’s transition and talk about identity.  We’ve talked about device, apps, files, let’s talk about identity for a minute.  And as we talk about identity, the first thing I want to talk about here is how you’ve used Active Directory for years and years in your organizations.  You’ve used it to give that great single-sign-on experience to your end users.  But then you’ve also used it for how you govern and manage access to all your applications.
What you’re looking at here today is what we call Cloud App Discovery.  And what it allows us to do is go get a view of all the SaaS apps that are being used in your company by your employees.
If I were to ask you today, how many of you, with confidence, could tell exactly the number of SaaS apps you’re using, which SaaS apps are used within your organization today?  You can do it today.  You can now do it with the general availability of Cloud App Discovery.
So in this environment, 452 users — excuse me — there are 452 SaaS apps that are being used by 8,131 users.
I can click into any one of these SaaS apps, see the number of users that are using it, as well as the amount of data that’s being shared up and down with the application.
I can then actually drill in and see a per-user view that gives me that view of every user and how much data they’re sharing with these SaaS apps.
Now, it’s fantastic to be able to see that, but what you really want to do is you want to bring them under management.  So let’s show you how that works.
We’ve done the work now to where we’ve integrated right here, look at this, 2,477 SaaS apps with the Enterprise Mobility Suite and what we call Azure Active Directory Premium.
And what that allows me to do is I can go bring these SaaS apps under management.  So when I click, for example, here on Dropbox for Business, I can configure it for single sign-on, I can also configure it for automated user provisioning.
What that means is a user account is created and appears in Azure Active Directory.  We can automatically create the user in the SaaS apps that need to be used for business.
Maybe more importantly, if that user ever leaves the organization, we can also disable their access to all the SaaS apps that are being used in business.  It’s the exact same thing you’ve been doing with Active Directory for years, now in the world of the cloud.
Now, let’s got a little deeper on this identity management.  The other piece I want to show you here is you can also configure this for things like conditional access.  So you can actually go in and say I’m going to require a multifactor authentication, and the conditional access capabilities that are built into the Enterprise Mobility Suite give you that additional layer of management and security to access this.
Now, one of the things about the intelligent cloud is it brings insights to you like this.  Across Microsoft, we do some amazing amount of research and bring telemetry back like no other company in the world.  For example, our Security Response Center gets telemetry back from 4 billion devices around the world on a regular basis.  We get a million new pieces of malware reported to us every single day.
We take all that data, feed it into Azure and the machine learning capability, and now give you a set of reports that help you understand and see what is happening with the identities in your environment.
So I’m going to click on reports here, and I’m going to just show you a couple of these reports.  And I would encourage you to go look at these because it is amazing what you can see.
This right here is my favorite report.  I call it the “impossible travel report.”  What it gives me is, again, using the machine learning capabilities of Azure, I can see things like John Smith logged in in Chicago and then 34 minutes later logged in in North Korea.  
We know that this user account has been compromised.  So I can come down here on the bottom, I can reset the password, I can challenge the user with a multifactor authentication, but I have the ability now to get insights brought to me, what’s happening to my identities, happening to these attacks.
I want to give you one other view of something that’s in our pre-production service today that will be rolling out over the next few weeks.  As part of our research, we’re constantly looking in kind of the darker parts of the Web for things that would give us signs of what’s happening.
If we find any of your user accounts are up for sale, we’re going to be able to surface that to you and give you an example like Robbie’s user account went up for sale on April 24th.  You have identities right now up for sale on the Web and you’re going to be able to do things like disable those, challenge them with a multifactor authentication, but you get the data that you need on identities to identify these attacks and prevent them before they get out of hand like we’ve seen across the industry.  
All right, but wait, there’s a little more.  Everybody that’s seen this has had two questions.  They’ve said, first, “How fast can I get using this?”  And second, “Can you deliver these capabilities for me to use with my on-premises Active Directory?”
You want to see it?  OK.  Last fall, we acquired this hot little startup named Aorato.  What Aorato is is a solution that watches your network and your environment and builds a graph of interactions between users, devices and resources.
And then in near-real time, it gives you a view of what has happened.  So let me walk your through this set of reports and walk you through what you’re going to be able to do with this.  Oh, and incidentally, this went into general preview this morning.
So the first thing I see here is it creates this graph.  And it says Michael normally works from two devices, but Michael now is working from seven devices we’ve not seen yet.
Michal is also accessing a set of six resources that are a little abnormal.  Now, look, Michael is a program manager in the engineering team, and all of a sudden Michael is now accessing servers or trying to access servers in finance, legal and HR.  Something just doesn’t make sense here.  Something seems to me to be wrong.
So I can go take a look at the devices that Michael is actually using to try to access this content.  And I can see here that these actually don’t meet my naming criteria.  So I’m going to go drill into one of these.  And as I drill into one of these devices, it actually is going to give me a timeline view of what is happening.
And I can click on this tab here called suspicious activities and now scroll through and actually get a view of what has been happening.
So, first of all, I see here that this piece here, this device from Mike is actually trying to remotely execute some code on a domain controller.  OK?  So now my guard is way up.  I know there’s something wrong here.
And as I continue to scroll down here, I can see that six minutes before that, this device attempted to launch what’s called a “pass the ticket” attack.  Now I absolutely know that there is something wrong.  As I come down here even more, I can see that there was a brute force attack that happened on the network, and it looks like Michael’s user account was actually compromised and the attacker was able to get his password.
So now I see where the breach started.  Michael had his username and password compromised.  Now, somebody is on a device that’s authenticated as Michael trying to access content and trying to now attack the organization.
How useful would this be for you inside your organizations?  
This is called Microsoft Advanced Threat Analytics, entered general preview today.  One of those things as soon as you get back in your environments, back to your hotel rooms tonight, download this and start looking at how you could take advantage of this.  It is a phenomenal way for you to help secure and protect your environment.
All right, now, let’s talk a little bit about a point of view specifically that we’ve learned over the past couple of years.  As we’ve built these incredible services and we get this telemetry back, one thing that we’ve learned for sure is as we get more closely connected with you, we’re able to better service you.
And so we have a point of view that we’ll do all these things where we’re protecting you at the device, app, file and identity layer.  But one of the most important things that you can do to make sure your devices are more secure, more compatible and more productive is to keep them updated with us.
So we wanted to give you a view of some of the things we’re going to do differently in Windows 10 and Office 2016.  And it’s a pleasure to actually have the head of Windows with us today.  Please give a warm welcome to Terry Myerson, who is going to give you a view of how we’re going to help you here.  
  Hello, Ignite.  So Brad talked about the changes in today’s security landscape and the defenses we’ve built into Windows 10 to respond.
But we all know the most important thing we can do to keep any device secure or to keep any business secure is to keep the devices always up to date with the latest software, including the latest security updates.
At Microsoft, we take our responsibility to keep you secure very seriously.  We’re investigating, following up on every single reported security issue.  We’re continuously testing our software, the software you’re running today and the new software we’re building to look for new security issues.  And when we find something, we’re updating our software to give you a defense against that issue.  We’re proactively helping you deliver that update to all of your Windows devices.
So how do these updates get deployed today to devices?  In the enterprise, you’re likely using update management software like System Center Config Manager or the Enterprise Mobility Suite.
These systems let you choose which patches to apply to which systems in which timeframe.  This is a critical business process, but it’s expensive and thankless.  I mean, when was the last time an end user reached out to you and said, “Thank you for that critical update”?  
Now, with consumers, we run Windows Update.  Windows Update delivers the same updates that you’re distributing inside the enterprise to 858 million Windows consumers on the second Tuesday of every month.
Next Tuesday, 858 million Windows devices, diverse Windows devices all across the planet will be updated by Windows Update.
Let’s take a second and discuss Android, where Google takes no responsibility to update their customers’ devices, refuses to take responsibility to update their devices, leaving end users and businesses increasingly exposed every day they use an Android device.
Google just shipped a big pile of code.    And then leaves your phones with no commitment to update your device.
Well, with Windows 10, we want to improve further the way we think about consumer and enterprise updates.  In the enterprise, you’ve been giving us a lot of feedback.  For years you’ve been saying you have these mission-critical devices where reliability is paramount.  You want to minimize code churn to just security updates.
Well, with Windows 10, we’re introducing long-term servicing branches which will give you just that.  Only security updates will be integrated into the long-term servicing branches, giving you the perfect solution for devices where reliability is paramount, those mission-critical devices inside the enterprise.  Industrial devices, embedded devices, devices all about reliability.
And with consumers, we will also be evolving.  We’ve talked about Windows as a service.  Continuously delivering Windows innovation to our Windows devices.  So with Windows 10, with Windows Update, we will not just be delivering security updates, but now Windows consumers connected to Windows Update will be receiving a steady stream of innovation over time every month.
Another big change, we’re not going to be delivering all of the updates to all of these consumers on one day of the month.  
With Windows Update and Windows 10, we have distribution rings.  We have this today in the Windows Inside program where the insiders get to decide, am I in the slow or the fast ring?  We’ve seen some people want the software right after it finishes our testing.  They don’t want to wait a second.  And then we have people that are stepping back and saying, “Hey, work out some of those kinks, I want to make sure there are no app compat issues, I want to make sure there are no functional issues.”
And this is great.  We let the user choose, and Windows Update for consumers, Windows 10, they will get to choose as well which distribution ring would they like to be part of.
With this, we’ll have confidence we have the highest-quality patches, testing them with this incredibly broad population.  But with these two approaches, we’re not addressing the needs of some of the most important Windows devices.  And these are end-user devices at work.
People at work are seeking the same innovations that we deliver to consumers.  But you have IT responsibility for those devices.
Now, we take a step back and consider what the right approach is for these end-user devices at work, we also want to address some of the other issues with selective patching that takes place today with enterprise update management software.
We test Windows for end users as an integrated whole.  With selective patching, we sometimes have these customer-specific quality risks because not all the patches are deployed.
Likewise, selective patching can introduce platform fragmentation, which creates quality risks and complications for developers, impeding innovation and causing some customer-specific issues.
And updating all of these end-user systems is still a thankless and tiresome task.  So with Windows 10, we need a new approach for end-user devices at work.  So today we’re announcing Windows Update for Business.
With Windows Update for Business, we want to give you the best of both worlds.  Ongoing innovation and security updates, while also giving you IT control over the automated process.
So how does this work?  Well, the devices connect to Windows Update for business.  They receive the same ongoing innovation and security updates.  But as an IT professional, you have control.  You can decide what distribution ring is any Windows device in.
I know there are some people probably in this room that say, “I want to be in the fastest ring.  Get me out there with the fastest consumer.”  At the same time, there will be new rings specifically for enterprises, for businesses that want to be in slower rings to make sure all the kinks are worked out in any updates before it gets applied to their system.
Likewise, Windows Update for Business will include maintenance windows where you can specify for any device when it should not be updated or when it should be updated.  We know there are devices that should never be updated during the day.  There are devices that should never be updated at night.  We know there are devices that should never be updated the last week of the quarter.
As an IT professional, with Windows Update for Business, you are in control.  With Windows 10, Windows Update has peer-to-peer update distribution capabilities, enabling the most efficient update distribution ever.
We’ve designed this for people all over the planet.  And for the enterprise, this means incredibly efficient distribution of updates to remote offices or remote sites for low-bandwidth connections.  You can opt into this as an IT professional for your devices.
And we’re going to integrate Windows Update for Business with System Center Config Manager and other update management software so that you can maintain a single pane of glass to manage your business.
And best of all, using Windows Update for Business to keep your end-user devices current will be free for all Windows 10 Pro and Windows 10 Enterprise devices.  
So in the process of developing Windows Update for Business, we’ve been working with so many of you to get your feedback and design this new approach for the modern workplace.
I thought this quote from Dorothy at Kimberly-Clark really captured the essence of what we’re trying to do here.  As you roll out Windows 10, start thinking about segmenting your devices, which ones truly are mission-critical, and then which ones are end-user devices.  And then start a pilot of Windows Update for Business.  Together, as partners in the innovation of IT, let’s shape this service from our intelligent cloud to meet the needs of your business.
Thank you.  
  Thanks, Terry.  Now, I’ve got to tell you, it’s been remarkable watching the Windows 10 organization just kind of reimagine what the world looks like in this new world.
Now, let’s go back and I’ll give you a quick summary of what you saw in that kind of like 15-minute demo section.  We talked about the general availability of the EMS-enabled Outlook coming in Q2 as well as the EMS-enabled Skype for Business coming in Q3.
We talked about the document tracking site from AzureRMS, another EMS component that is in preview today.
We talked about the general availability of App Discovery in the Enterprise Mobility Suite, general available today.
And then we talked about the new Advanced Threat Analytics that went into general preview today.  So incredible amounts of things for you to be able to look at and see.
And then Terry just announced Windows Update for Business and how that’s going to integrate with the tools that many of you use today like Config Manager.
Now, I’ll tell you just an insight as one of the organizations that is working heavily with Windows 10, the team has done a phenomenal job.  It’s incredibly compatible.  Today, we are also announcing updates to System Center 2012 that allow you to be able to use Config Manager in a Windows 10 environment.
Let’s now transition and talk about flexible for a minute.  And in flexible, one of the most interesting data points that I’ve read recently is 40 percent of IT spend is now happening outside of IT.  It’s happening in the business.
So how do we enable organizations to really partner more with the business as more of this spend is happening in SaaS apps and in the public cloud?
Well, the way we think about this, we think about your cloud and our cloud as one.  We don’t think about these things as separate, so our engineers work in a model where we ask ourselves:  What can we do to harness the power of both of these?  And we literally consider our cloud as your edge and your servers as our edge.
Now, our point of view here, our architecture is fundamentally different from everybody else in the industry.  We innovate rapidly in the public cloud, and then we deliver you all of that innovation, all of that learning, and you run the same bits inside of your datacenter that we run.
We’re one of only a handful of organizations running at hyper scale with numbers like for the fact there’s more than a million servers in the Microsoft Cloud, 50 trillion storage objects, 425 million active Azure Active Directory users, and we have more than 1.4 million instances of SQL running in Azure.
Now, why are these numbers important to you?  You know, we talk as an industry about software-defined datacenter.  I can tell you, we live it every single day in Azure.  With this kind of scale, with this kind of just incredible capacity, everything has to be automated, everything has to be driven through software.  And where we are unique is we bring all of that for you to run in your datacenters.
Now, let’s talk about a couple new products that we’re announcing today and how they’ve benefited from this model of innovate in the cloud and deliver to all of you.
We announced SQL Server 2016 this morning.  The preview will be available in the summer.  You’re getting that same mission-critical, tier-one scale that we deliver to all of our customers from Azure because it’s the same bits.
You get enhanced analytics, including R integration.  There’s some incredible hybrid cloud scenarios that are enabled.  And, of course, all of this is done with the fact that it’s all secure at rest, it’s all secure in transit, everything is encrypted, but the keys all remain in your datacenter.
Now, let me give you one of my most favorite scenarios in SQL Server 2016, and this is something that I bet most of you have in your environment today.
You’ve got an application and in that application you’ve got tables with the product that you sell, your customers, and then the order history.  These tables can get huge.  You know, you think about all the order history for a very active website.
Well, now because it’s the same bits running in our datacenter and in your datacenter, we have what is called the database stretch.  And what the database stretch allows us to do is take a table and actually stretch part of that table up into the cloud.  You can take all your cold data, all the order history that you access on a very infrequent basis, and have that table now straddle multiple clouds.
The only reason this is possible is because we have the same bits running in our datacenter that you run in your datacenter.
Now, let’s talk a little bit about Windows Server and System Center.  Ground that in what we’re doing in Azure.  So as you think about Azure, there’s all the infrastructure that I’m sure you’re aware of, the networking, storage, then the compute.  There’s a set of services like IaaS and PaaS that we deliver, and then there’s all your applications.  And that really is what Azure is.
Now, two years ago, we announced that we were going to bring portions of this to your datacenter, and we called this the Azure Pass.  And what this gave you was a consistent IaaS environment and compatibility in that great self-service experience for your IaaS environment.
But you’ve been really clear in your feedback, you love it, but you want more.  So you want to be able to even take your born-in-the-cloud applications and host those in your environment.  You’ve told us you want Azure, all of Azure in your datacenters.
That’s what we’re announcing today.  And it’s called the Microsoft Azure Stack.  This is literally us giving you all of Azure for you to run in your datacenters.
So what this brings you is you get that great IaaS and PaaS environment in your datacenters.  You have incredible capability like a unified application model that gives you a one-click deployment experience for even the most complex, multitier applications.
And then you get that cloud-inspired infrastructure.  We’re giving you the same software controller that we built for our network, the name is the same, network controller.  We’re giving you our load balancing.  We’re giving you all the storage innovation.  We’ve published all of our designs of our service to Open Compute.  In fact, we are the largest contributor to Open Compute.
All of that being delivered to you for you to go run in your datacenters so you can literally have Azure in your datacenter.
Closely aligned with this is Windows Server 2016 and System Center 2016.  Today, we released preview No. 2 of Windows Server 2016, next week you’ll see preview No. 2 of System Center 2016.  These have been designed to host these modern, micro-services applications, including containers.
In the server preview today, you’re actually going to see something called Nano Server.  What Nano Server is is just a very, very small footprint of Windows Server that is optimized for hosting that cloud infrastructure, apps as well as containers.
So let’s talk for a minute about containers.  Containers is a concept that was pioneered in Linux and really made popular by Docker.  But what containers give you, it gives developers the ability to create this incredibly portable application packet that they can run anywhere.
Dev and IT professionals love it because it just gives you this contained, self-contained capability to be able to rapidly deploy, update and scale applications on demand.  That capability, Containers for Windows Server, will ship in preview No. 3 this summer.
We’ve also done work, we’ve significantly enhanced our Linux management capabilities.  Desired configuration management now on Linux.
We’ve done work like in the LAMP stack where we can better manage, and of course we’re managing SQL, SharePoint, Exchange and Office 365 better from the new System Center.
Let’s actually take a look at it.  Give a welcome to Jeff.  He’s going to give you a view of Azure running in your datacenter.  
  How’s everybody doing?  Awesome.  Well, last week at Build, Mark Russinovich demonstrated the new cloud application model in Azure for developers.  But he didn’t entirely tell you everything.  We kept a bunch of surprises for you this week here at Ignite.  Let’s take a look at the new cloud application model, this time from an IT perspective.
Here, you can see I’m logged into Azure.  And, in fact, I’m going to go take a look at one of those new cloud applications.  Here’s my Contoso expenses report.
As you can see, at a high level, this expenses application consists of some IaaS virtual machines, Web app and more.
Well, if we drill in even further, whoa, take a look at all of the resources here that have been templated and are being managed as a single cloud application.  You’ve got IaaS virtual machine, network interfaces, public IP addresses, virtual networks, a PaaS SQL database, storage account, Web app, all of this managed as a single cloud application.
Well, let’s drill into storage real quick.  And you can see that this storage actually can consist of blobs, tables, queues and more.  In fact, I’m going to drill into blobs, and you can see, in fact, here’s the blob service end point.  This is running in Azure, and in fact, you can see this is running in the eastern United States.
Now, since this application has already been deployed, what we want to do is we want to make sure that the right people have the appropriate access.  The way to do that is through role-based access control.  So let me show you exactly how we’re going to do that.
Back here, let’s take a look at some of the roles that are available.  You can see here we’ve got owners, contributors, we’ve got readers, we’ve got a variety of contributors from BizTalk to SQL to MySQL to application insights.
Folks, think about what’s really happening here.  Again, I’m going to go back to this application model for a second.  When you configure role-based access control, it means it’s managing the entire cloud application, all of these resources.  I don’t have to go in here and configure permissions for virtual machines or set ACLs on files or blobs or anything.  This is all being managed as a single entity.
How cool is this?    Now, we’re just getting started, though, folks.  Wouldn’t it be great if I could take this cloud application with all of these resources, this blob storage, this easy, role-based authentication, wouldn’t it be great if I could actually run this in your datacenter as well?
Well, let me show you exactly how we would deploy that application.  I’m going to switch on over here to PowerShell.  Now, the first thing I want to point out is, folks, this is four lines of PowerShell.  With these four lines, I can deploy that expenses application either to an Azure datacenter or to Azure Stack running in your datacenter.  In fact, in this case, you can see we’ve set the location variable to Chicago.  That’s the one difference that’s telling me that this is going to Azure Stack running in your datacenter in Chicago.
Now, I could deploy this, literally with a mouse click.  But this takes about a minute, which I don’t have.  We’ve actually already done the deployment and, folks, for the very first time, I present to you the Microsoft Azure Stack.  Take a very good look here.  Looks just like Azure, doesn’t it?  That’s because it is.
This is the Azure portal.  And, in fact, the background we changed to black just so we could contrast the difference between Azure Stack and Azure.  But you can see here from the address bar, this is clearly not running in an Azure datacenter.  And, remember, that application that I just showed you, that cloud application, well, guess what?  Let’s go take a look at this in Azure Stack.
In fact, we’re going to go into split-screen mode right now so you can see for yourself.  Take a good look, folks.  What do you see?  You see the same IaaS virtual machines, the same network interfaces, the same public IP addresses, the same blob storage, the same SQL, the same role-based access control both in Azure and in Azure Stack.
We’re giving you exactly what you asked for.  We’re bringing Azure to your datacenter.  What do you think, guys?  
Now, so far, everything I’ve shown you has been from the cloud tenant standpoint.  Let me show you what this looks like from the cloud admin standpoint as you manage this in your environment.
You can see here, I’m logged into Azure Stack this time as the admin.  Now, one of the jobs you want to do, of course, is you want to provide services to your infrastructure.  And you’re going to do that by creating plans.
Now, plans consists of resources, services, and quotas.  In fact, you can see here I’ve already got a bunch of plans.  And, in fact, let’s create one together.
I’m going to go in here into plans, I’m going to create a new one, and in fact, I’m sure a popular one will be IaaS.  So let’s do that right now.
Now we’re going to choose a resource group.  And we are going to associate services along with that.  You can see I can do networking, compute and storage.  And, folks, surprise, up in Azure, we’ve got software load balancers.  We’ve got network controllers.  We’ve got a distributed firewall that’s been running in Azure literally for years running at global scale powering some of the largest events in the world like the Sochi Olympics.
We’ve packaged those up and put those in the Azure Stack for you so you’re getting those same software-defined networking capabilities.  All very cool.
Now, let’s go ahead and configure some quotas for compute.  In fact, I’m going to deploy this to actually both Paris and Chicago simultaneously.  And I’m going to set the quotas for compute here for this plan.
In fact, I’m feeling kind of generous today.  This plan is going to get 100 virtual machines with unlimited memory and unlimited CPU cores.  And in just a couple of clicks, folks, we are now deploying this plan concurrently to both Paris and Chicago.
Now, while that’s happening, one of the things I want to do is take a look at some of the stores that we’ve already deployed.  In fact, here’s a storage in Chicago.  Woops.  There we go.  Here is a store in Chicago.
And I’m going to drill into the stores that, again, I’m being provided through Azure Stack.  You can see, I have my API requests for the last hour, availability, nodes, file shares, tables, queues, blobs and more.  And, in fact, if I click on file share, there you can see the back end.  And in case you’re wondering what’s backing this, it’s the same scale-out file server you already know, you’re already deploying today.
Think about what you’ve just seen.  You’ve just seen the ability to deploy the same cloud application in Azure or in your datacenter with Azure Stack.  You’ve seen easy, role-based authentication and control, and you’ve seen a sophisticated templating engine for multiresource life-cycle management.  Microsoft Azure Stack, bringing Azure to your datacenter.
Now, if you’d like to know more, Mark Russinovich and Jeffrey Snow will be doing a session right after the keynote that talks more about Azure Stack coming to your datacenter.  Thank you very much.  
  All right, thanks, Jeffrey.  Long time in the making, it’s phenomenal capabilities.  And, again, we’re unique in our view of giving you everything that we’re running inside of our datacenter.
OK, let’s spend a few minutes on integrated now.  And if you think about integrated, it’s all about choice.  You know, 74 percent, that’s the number of enterprises that in a recent Gartner Research report stated that multicloud, hybrid-cloud environments is going to be important to enabling business growth.
So you think about your world today.  It’s becoming more diverse and what we believe is an organization where all of you can ask IT to help bring some governance to this.  So what you have to be able to do is enable your users to use any app on any OS in any cloud.
This is how many of our organizations look today.  You’ve got an existing set of investments in your datacenters.  More and more of your applications are running in Azure, whether you’re lifting and shipping up there, or whether you’re consuming services like Office 365 or building new applications, as well as applications coming from other clouds like Amazon and Rackspace.
What is needed is one single way that allows you to be able to manage Windows, Linux, public cloud, private cloud, Hyper-V, VMware, physical, virtual, all of that through one pane of glass.
We’re announcing something new this morning, an Azure-based service called the Microsoft Operations Management Suite, or OMS.  And what OMS is going to deliver, it gives you that any cloud, any OS, any application, and you get orchestration.  You get application availability.  You get disaster recovery and backup.  And you get all of that capability, again, virtual, physical, public cloud, private cloud, VMware, Hyper-V, all in one pane of glass.
And it’s fascinating, you know, the way you should think about this is OMS is the equivalent of EMS, but in your datacenter.  EMS gives you that full suite for what you need to manage, secure and protect all your endpoint devices and users on the front end.  OMS gives you that in the back end.
You want to take a look at OMS?   All right, let’s get Jeffrey back.
  Thanks, Brad.  Now, one of the challenges we’ve heard from you is how do you manage the modern datacenter?  The modern datacenter probably has multiple locations, multiple cloud resources, and you somehow want to bring all of this under some management, provide analytics, so that you can run your hybrid cloud better.
Well, good luck with that, because trying to correlate all of that data, bringing all of those log files together, trying to bring those in, people cobble those together, script those together, try and make this all happen.
Well, if you actually get all of that accomplished, then the hard work actually begins because then you have to go use analytics to mine that data to find the right things to do and bring that power and efficiency to your datacenter.  That’s what the Operations Management Suite is all about.
And, in fact, we want you to be able to start using it this week while you’re here at Ignite.  You can try it for free.  And, in fact, you get started with three easy steps.  Let me go ahead and show you.
First of all, to get started, No. 1, I’m going to determine which solution packs I want to use.  In fact, I want them all.  Malware assessment, system update, change tracking, automation and more.  So I’m going to add those selected solutions.
Next, I’m going to connect to data source.  I can connect servers individually, I can link with System Center Operations Manager, and I can also link my Azure storage account.
Finally, I can add custom logs as well.  For example, I really would like to be able to look through system logs as well.  So I’m going to add those custom logs.  In fact, I want to be able to look and determine which ones I want to view.  I want to see them all, click save.
Now, normally, this takes some time, obviously, as we collect and analyze and aggregate that data.  So through the power of cooking, of course, we’ve actually already done that.  I’m going to switch to this system.  And you can see what Operations Management Suite looks like populated with data.
First of all, take a look here at the overview.  You can see I’ve got Active Directory, I’ve got a malware assessment, capacity planning and much, much more here just in the overview, already aggregated and brought to me.
But more importantly, I want to be able to personalize this, customize this and even share my own personal dashboards with people on my team.  So I’ve got my own customized dashboard here as well.
Here are the things that are near and dear to my heart.  I want to look at critical alerts raised in the past 24 hours.  Good news, nothing there.  I want to look at CPU time, I want to look at services.  Actually, one thing that I do like to look at very often is the amount of change going on in specific systems.  And, in fact, here I can see that I’ve got some systems that have had 38 changes in the last 24 hours.  That, to me, is something I want to take a look at, so let’s drill in a little bit further.
Now, take a look here.  You can see I’ve got a list of systems.  And look at where those systems are coming from.  Azure, AWS, VMware, Linux, System Center.  All of this being serviced up in one location without me having to go look for this.
Now, you can see here my first one has 38 changes in the last 24 hours.  Now, normally, right about now you’re probably thinking, OK, he’s going to go RDP into that system and go trolling through log files.
Now, in fact, I’m going to click right here, and that information is immediately brought to me so I can now take a look at all of those changes.  And, in fact, I got the power of Hadoop behind me for this data analytics to make this easier than ever before.
I can save my most common search queries to the right-hand side, and again, share these with some of my colleagues.
Another thing to point out, capacity planning.  How do you know how much storage, compute, and memory you have?  When are you going to run out?  Well, we’re using historical data, your resource utilization that’s historical to give you an idea of when you think you’re going to run out and plan appropriately.  So to be proactive rather than reactive.
And as you saw Joe and Brad talk about, we want to make security management easy and ubiquitous.  So we’ve got security and auditing.  And you can immediately see here I go right to the things that are most important to me.
I can see my security posture.  Looking pretty good there.  My notable issues, actually, looking pretty fine there.  But I can see here that under context I’ve got some updates that I need to apply, I’ve got some work to do there in terms of bringing my systems up to date.
Finally, let’s go on over here to alert management.  When I set this up, you noticed that I mentioned also this can link with System Center.  Well, through alert management, it’s surfacing those alerts up through System Center and, again, from Azure, from AWS, all of these things, bringing it all together so now I can see all of these alerts in one single location from one pane of glass.
So think about what you’ve seen here.  Think about this power.  Whether you’re using Azure, Amazon, Windows, Linux, VMware, System Center, Hyper-V, we’re aggregating, collating that data, bringing the power of Hadoop insight to it to help you provide and run the most efficient hybrid cloud for your business.  Thank you very much.  
  All right, thanks, Jeffrey.  Awesome.  OMS is going to be awesome.
You know, I’ll let you in on a little secret.  A year ago at TechEd, we actually gave a couple of customers access to an early preview of that.  And just a couple of days at TechEd, we had more than 10,000 servers up and being managed through that early prototype.
Now, one of the things that many of you actually have been tweeting this morning is how can I get more information on all these demos?  So if you go to this URL, you actually go take a look at noon, we’ll post a blog that goes through every one of those demos, information of how we build them, where they’re at, what you have to have.  But you can go up there and actually get a detailed view with links to help you understand exactly how to get that running in your own environment.
And, of course, the intelligent cloud has to be intelligent.  And throughout the entire morning, that’s what we’ve shown you.  We’ve shown you how we’re bringing all of our learning, all of our experience, all of our data, all of our telemetry and bringing it to you to help you in your environment.
So trustworthy, flexible, integrated and intelligent.  That’s what we’re working on as we build the intelligent cloud.
Now, I really encourage everyone to come back at 5:00 and listen to one of my favorite people, Harry Shum.  Harry leads the Microsoft Research organization, which is a global organization of some of the brightest minds across the industry.
And what they look at is, you know, the long-term horizon and where technology is going to be.  What’s that next generation of technology look like?  You’re going to see some amazing demonstrations and actually see some of the most stunning and some of the most bright computer scientists that the world has ever seen.
So Satya started with our ambitions.  The work that we’re doing as we make personal computing more personal, as we reinvent business productivity and process, and as we build the intelligent cloud.  And you, IT, are in the center of that.
I can tell you that every day we think about you.  Every day, we think about how we enable you, how we empower you.  We can’t even tell you how much we appreciate the opportunity to partner with you and your businesses.  And that’s a stewardship that we take incredibly seriously.
Let’s ignite the future, and let’s do it together.  Thank you, and have a fantastic conference.  
  Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome Corporate Vice President Joe Belfiore.
  Good morning.  Hello.  Hello, everybody.  It’s a real pleasure for me to be here at Ignite.  Of course, I’m going to talk about Windows 10, and as Satya said one of the areas that I’m going to focus on is more personal computing.
Now, I know many of you are familiar with Windows 10, and you know that Windows 10 has work in all three of these areas.  It’s going to support the intelligent cloud.  It’s going to help all of you to reinvent productivity within your businesses.  But we’re are kind of focused on more personal computing.
And today I’m actually bringing with me a mission here to Chicago.  It’s a mission that I am on, personally, and that I’m going to try to enlist all of you into as well.  My mission is to convince you and to give you the tools to go back to your companies with the belief that your end users are going to love and desire Windows 10.
Windows 10 is a product that we’re focused on pulling together in a way that will work great for people at home, but also work great for people in business.  And I want to focus on the end-user part of that message, and later on you’ll hear Brad Anderson talk about the IT management part of that.
Now there are three main ways that we’re focused on making sure that Windows 10 will be great for the end users in your business.  But, first, we need to make it easy for those users to move from Windows 7, or Windows XP, or Windows 8, or whatever version of Windows they’re running and come to Windows 10 and immediately be productive.  We need to deliver a familiar user experience that has exactly the right balance between things that are where you expect them and new features and benefits that unveil themselves at the right pace with help so that you can improve your productivity as time goes by.
Secondly, there is an amazing range of features in Windows 10 that deliver on the promise of more personal computing, everything from being able to speak in natural language to Cortana, and ask questions, even about your business data, being able to write with a pen or with your finger on the surface of the Web in the new Microsoft Edge browser.  There are many of these things.  And even the security of Windows 10 takes advantage of more personal computing to make that a delightful experience.
So I’m going to walk you through pretty much just demos of these three things and why end users are going to love Windows 10 in your companies.  So let me come right over here and get started with a demo.
So the first thing I’m going to do is begin at the beginning. And I want you to imagine all those people out there who are familiar with Windows 7 coming to their Windows 10 PC for the first time.  Down here on the taskbar they’re going to find the familiar Start button.  This new editor control where they can ask anything, and then of course the taskbar that’s familiar.
When they bring up the Start Menu, the key idea that we’re aiming for here is the balance of familiarity with new features.  And we’ve been doing a ton of user testing, and what you see here on the screen we think is very near the final design.  It has many tweaks lately to get the last bit of Windows 7 user familiarity.  So you see right up here the first thing we present is the Most Used list of apps that you’ve been using.  And this will come forward if you do a Windows 7 Upgrade.  Recently added apps here are available so when things are installed they’re very easy to find.  And then common tasks like File Explorer, Settings, Power, are very handy.
We’ve also just added back the support that was in Windows 7 for jump lists within the Start Menu and the taskbar, so that important UI element will be present as people expect as they move forward from Windows 7.
And then, of course, over here we have the section that’s familiar to Windows 8 users, but also really easy for everyone to learn and get benefit from, which is our Live Tiles.  And you saw we’ve been making some tweaks to the animations in these Live Tiles and so on.
So right off the bat, we want people to get into the experience in a way that’s familiar and natural.  But then from there have features reveal themselves that make people more productive and effective as they’re using Windows 10.  So now I’m going to start talking about things that begin easy and discoverable, but then branch into high productivity.
So I’m going to come down here to our task view.  We’ve added a button on the taskbar, so this is really discoverable for people.  In our telemetry we see that the use of Alt-Tab is around 5 to 8 percent of Windows users.  Those people find it very powerful, but not that many people know it.  So when I come to task view I can use this to switch between apps.  Here I’ll go to my File Explorer.  Here I’ll go to my Maps app.  And, of course, here you see in the case of File Explorer, an older Win32 app; and in the case of Maps, a new Universal Windows App, both of which behave in the same way with restore state windows, and minimize/maximize.  So there’s nothing new for people to learn if they’re coming from Windows 7.
But you might have also noticed there are some great new features here, too.  We have multiple desktop support.  So if I have a desktop where I’m working on my expense reporting spreadsheet here, and I have a desktop where I’m doing more of my sort of productivity stuff, it’s handy.
Now you’ve seen this before.  I know a lot of you are Insiders and you’re been asking us for stuff and we’ve been putting new stuff in.  So let me show you some delightful features you might like.
As power users if you hold down control and Windows and then right arrow you can flip over to your other desktop, control, Windows, left arrow will get you back there.  Now imagine how productive this can make people.  You’ve got your four Windows set up for your intense PowerPoint authoring on one desktop and you can flip back and forth between these.
Here’s another big Insider request, you want to be able to take an app and move it from one desktop to another, well now drag and drop works.  It’s very easy to grab a window move it from one place —   Thank you.  There are many, many tweaks that we’ve been putting in the build like that, listening to feedback in particular from folks like you and there are more coming.  We’re going to really tune this to get that right balance between familiarity and productivity.
Now the next thing I want to talk about is Cortana.  You’re all familiar with Cortana in general.  You know that Cortana is the world’s only personal digital assistant, and we’re building right into Windows 10.  And today I want to show you some new things that we’re working on for Cortana that can help in a business environment.
Now, of course Cortana is one of the features that we focused on for this notion of more personal computing and natural interaction so it works with voice.  And so I can even be this far from my PC, it helps that I have this big mike on, and I can ask Cortana interesting questions that just help me be more sort of productive and informed.  So, for example, I might say hey, Cortana, how tall is the Sears Tower?
  1,729 feet.
  Thank you.
Now Cortana was especially helpful there, because she knew what I was talking about, even though the name of the Sears Tower has changed.  I didn’t know that.  Of course, there’s many, many things that I can ask and this is an example of the intelligent cloud backing up Windows 10.  And Cortana will keep getting smarter and smarter.
Of course, we wanted Cortana to be good at PC tasks, too, not just Web queries.  So I can say things like hey, Cortana, show me PowerPoint slides about the charity auction.  And there we go.  The indexing service on the client is able to look at local files, files in OneDrive, and OneDrive for business and give me a unified result across all those things.
Now, one of the things that we’ve been finding out through the Insider program is that people are asking Cortana to get help with how to use their PC.  And so we’ve just begun teaching Cortana about things that she could be helpful in, in instructing people how to get more done with their PCs.  So I’m going to show you an example of this work in progress.  Now this is not exactly how the resulting content will look, but you’ll get a sense of this scenario.
Hey, Cortana, how do I project my screen?
  The keyboard shortcut to project is Windows key plus P.
  So again, one of these kinds of things that as we see what people are doing we’re able to tune the capability of Cortana in the service and make her smarter and better able to answer the questions that are actually getting asked.
So that’s a set of things that we’re sort of building right into Cortana as a general feature for everybody.  But, one of the things I wanted to show to you all for the first time is some work that we’re doing in Cortana to enable her to connect to business-specific data.  And when you think about the range of things that Microsoft is working on, a smart cloud that makes productivity work different and better, with more personal computing, this demo sort of outlines how these things can all come together.
So we’re going to switch machines, because we have a PC that’s configured and you’re going to actually see a slightly newer Cortana UI here.  What I’ve done is we announced at BUILD last week that Cortana can connect to other applications.  And Cortana’s intelligence and capability can be enhanced through other applications.  Well what we have here is Cortana connected to Power BI.  And this is done in an interesting way where any client PC that has Cortana if you sign into Azure Active Directory and are set up on Azure AD to have Power BI data, then Cortana can answer questions about your business data.  And she does this in some pretty rich and interesting ways.
So what we did a week or so ago we took the then-current data about all of you Ignite attendees, it wasn’t complete yet, but it was close, and we put it into Power BI and now I can ask Cortana questions about all of you.  So let’s try this.
Hey, Cortana, how many people are attending Ignite?  And there you go, at the time we took the data there were 20,000 of you.    Now actually there are 23,000 of you now, so that data is just a little bit old.  Now, that’s like — asking that question like child’s play, right.  Like you’re going to have an intelligent personal assistant that has this rich data, you should be able to ask some questions that start getting at the insight behind that data.
Hey, Cortana, what’s the number of people at Ignite by country?  There we go.  She found the countries that people are from and the number of them.  And this one is kind of interesting, because right here in the canvas there’s interactivity.  So you’ll notice that North America has a bigger circle than a bunch of other countries and some of these countries, as I zoom in they’re close together and hard to see, I can act interactively right there within Cortana’s canvas to get more insight about this question.  We’ll do a couple more.
Hey, Cortana, what are the popular reasons for attending Ignite?  And here you go.  You all were interested in hearing about everything.  That’s good.  We like that.  And then you were interested in new products, in beta products, in existing products and so on.
Okay one last one, just because if you could imagine people who are really trying to draw insights from data they want to ask questions in different ways, slice and dice, consider how powerful it is when you can simply ask your personal digital assistant something like hey, Cortana, show me the average number of PCs our attendee companies have by industries.  And there you go.  The top industry for Ignite attendees in terms of size of PCs is the defense industry averaging at over 20,000 PCs per company.
So that’s an example of bringing together an intelligent cloud, thinking about how to reinvent productivity through more personal computing and natural interactions, speak, being able to interact with Cortana right in that canvas, and an easy way to deploy it to lots and lots of people.  And we love this as an example for how these things come together and why end users in your companies are going to love Windows 10.
Now the next thing I want to talk about is our new browsing experience in Windows 10, Microsoft Edge.  We announced the name for Microsoft Edge at BUILD last week.  And we’ve been talking about this for a while.  I’m going to do a quick demo.  I would encourage you to take a look at the videos of some of the other demos, because I’m not going to go into depth here.  But I do want to show you one sort of scenario that brings together our key end-user benefits, which are enabling people to take notes directly on the Internet and share them with each other, being able to read effectively as you move from site to site and, of course, third, Cortana is built into the Edge browser to help you with your browsing tasks.
So I’m going to come right down here to the familiar “e” icon on the taskbar and open up Microsoft Edge.  And as I get into the demo, you’ll notice one of the things we announced at BUILD last week is some performance benchmarks.  Microsoft Edge is created as a Universal Windows App.  It’s one of the many that we’re building and including as part of Windows 10.  And because it’s a Universal App, it has protections and very high performance, some of which you can read about in an article like this.
But the demo that I want to do that we haven’t shown before is bringing together our new reading mode capabilities with Edge browser extensions.  Last week at the Build conference, we announced extension support that will be coming this fall.  And we showed a couple of those, but I’m going to show you one more here.
Imagine I’m browsing the Web, I’m interested in what people are talking about in Windows 10.  I come across this Spanish language site and I’m going to read this.  And so I’m going to take advantage of our reading mode.  I’ll come right up here, the reading view icon is really handy.  And when I go into reading mode, one extra special thing is going to happen, you’ll notice the site is translated into English.  And that’s because I have the Microsoft Translator extension installed.  It knows that my native language is English, and we’re providing a hook in the reading mode so that extensions can be invoked and enhance your reading mode experience when you switch into reading mode.
So immediately I get this content here, not just beautifully presented in a way that’s easy to read, but also translated to my native language.  And, of course, at any time, even in reading mode, I can choose to make a Web note, and then I might use a stylus or my finger to just go ahead and mark right up on the screen.  I can highlight things that are interesting.  And then I could come up here, clip them, and then go right up here and save or share them.  So this gives you a sense of how the Microsoft Edge browser is going to help people with their reading, note taking, and through extensions be added on all the time as developers write new code.
So Microsoft Edge is an example of a Universal App written for Windows 10 that we’re building in.  And it’s interesting to think about this as one of the reasons that end users are going to love Windows 10.  First, because we, Microsoft, are writing a range of terrific Universal Apps, and either building them right into Windows 10 or making them available for the store.  So there’s a lot of great stuff that your users will be able to get.
Secondly, though, this is a platform we’re investing heavily in, and it’s a great opportunity for all of you to create updated apps for your businesses taking advantage of our cloud, distributing through our store, and giving end users a great experience across a wide range of devices.
So I’m going to give you a quick look at how some of these things work in the suite of apps that we’re building, and how they run across devices.  So we have a phone and a PC on the screen here at the same time, and I’m just going to flip through some apps.  The first one I’m going to do is Outlook Mail.  So on my phone I’ve launched Outlook Mail, and on my PC I’ve launched Outlook Mail.  And you’ll see I can scroll through the list of messages in my Inbox.  I’ll choose this Continuum demo message on both.  And you’ll notice they visually look and feel very similar.
If you’re a user going from phone to PC, it’s going to feel incredibly comfortable.  And the real reason why it’s so familiar from device to device is it is literally the same code.  This app will come with Windows 10 on the PC, on a tablet, on a phone.  It is the identical app.  And so users can really smoothly move from one to another.
Let me pick another example.  On the phone I’m going to open Word Preview.  On the PC here I’m going to open Word Preview.  This is Word implemented as a Universal App, a Universal Windows App.  And so you’ll see here as I scroll down I get the same presentation of my document, because it is, in fact, the same code.  I’m getting great quality rendering of my Word documents.  I’m getting an equivalent editing experience on both.  It doesn’t matter whether I’m using a PC, an eight-inch tablet, a six-inch tablet, or a four-inch phone, the experience is the same, because in fact it’s the same code.
Now, of course, not only, as I said, is the Universal Windows Platform for apps that we write, of course it’s a great opportunity for all of you.  So let me launch here the Fabrikam Home Builder.  So this is an example of a line-of-business app that’s using the Azure Cloud to drive its intelligence in the backend, and then written to the Universal Windows Platform so that I get this consistent experience across devices.
In fact, you might be looking at that and at first glance you say well those look different.  Well, that’s because this app is taking advantage of the automatic adaptive UI capabilities in the Universal Windows Platform, so that when it’s large it looks like this, but when it’s small it moves into this kind of layout, which in fact you’ll notice is identical to what happens on the phone.  You write the app once; it can adapt to different screen sizes and different inputs, and if you would like you can tailor it, as well.
And that’s the magic that enables the Universal Windows Platform to get a single app from a small phone, to a small tablet, to a medium-sized PC, to a large PC, to the Surface Hub, to HoloLens, and to the Xbox One.  So it’s certainly worthwhile for you all to learn about that and look into moving your apps to the Universal Windows Platform.
Now, one of the great benefits of this kind of approach to the Universal Windows Platform is in delivering that mobility of experience that Satya referenced.  We want end users to be able to pick up a phone device and have the same app experience that they might have on their PC.  Similarly, we want people to take a single device and be able to transform it and use it in more than one way.  And we call that set of features Continuum.  Continuum is about being able to transform your use of a device into mobile scenarios, but give up no compromises in your use of input device or screen size.
So that’s a little abstract way to talk about it.  Instead of being abstract let me just give you a real demo.  Now, I’m sure you’ve heard about this before, but I want to show you what our UI looks like now.  So I’m going to bring — get some of my apps here upon the screen so you can see some Windows.  I’m using this Surface Pro 3 like a normal PC with a mouse and keyboard, all my apps work in windowed mode, the way I would expect.  But, what I’m going to do is tear off the keyboard.  And when I do I want you to notice up on the screen I’m going to get a little popup, I don’t know if we’re going to get this on camera here, I’m going to tear off the keyboard, I get a popup, do you want to enter tablet mode.  I’ll say yes and this is the Continuum feature in action.
My PC has now transformed into a tablet.  And you’ll notice a few things have changed.  My apps are now showing full screen and I can task switch between them using the task switcher.  If I’m a Windows 8 user and I’m used to task switching being a swipe from the left that still works.  Similarly, we do have an Action Center here, which is available through a button on the task bar, or through right swipe.  So if I’m a Windows 8 user, and used to getting to my Wi-Fi settings from a right swipe, that’s still there and present.  And you’ll also notice when I go to the Start menu now it expands to the full Start screen, taking advantage of all the screen real estate.  So that’s Continuum on a two-in-one tablet.
The other thing that I have here is I want you to think about how this Continuum feature enables a wide range of device form factors.  This is an eight-inch tablet.  It’s a Lenovo ThinkPad.  And in this case it makes sense for the default usage case of the device to be in tablet mode.  And you’ll see this is actually a slightly more recent build where we’ve listened to feedback on making the default tablet start simpler.  We’ve increased the size of these items and we’ve put the more dense list of things like File Explorer settings, power and so on just off to the left under this menu that you can get to by swiping around.
So here’s our simple tablet experience.  I can use the same task switching button to switch between tasks.  Here’s my Excel expense reporting spreadsheet.  But, what I want to do is show you how we’ve integrated navigation among full-screen apps with a common systems back button.  So here I am in the maps app, this is included with Windows 10 and I’m going to expand the menu here, choose my favorites, and we’re going to navigate first to New York City, you’ll see the map jump to New York City.  But, I’m going to use the systemwide back button to go back and change my mind and navigate instead to Tampa.  So this is an example of this app integrating with the system in a simple way, down there on the task bar, in a full-screen, tablet UI, which is what people are accustomed to.
Now the story gets even better, because this is a full PC and it can run Win32 apps, and it can do all those things that PC users expect from a full PC.  So what I’m going to do to prove that is I’m going to take it over here and dock it and when I do you’ll notice we’ve got it automatically switching back into PC mode.
There’s my maps app and the maps app is now taking full advantage of the large screen size.  And you’ll notice when I open up this menu and go to favorites it gets displayed over here on the left, because the app has been tailored to understand laying the UI out differently when it’s up on this big screen.  And similarly, if I go to Excel there’s my Excel app.  I can now use that small tablet in a full, no compromises, familiar way when it’s docked with a keyboard and mouse.  When I’m a mobile worker it works naturally mobilely, and when I come back home and dock it, it works naturally and in a familiar way as a full PC.  
Thank you.
Now a big part of the reason why this works so well is that the Universal Windows Platform has apps that were designed to shift and understand mouse and keyboard input, large screens, but also touch input and small screens.  And because that’s true we’re able to create a feature called Continuum for Phones, which lets a tiny device like this little phone give the power of a PC experience when you connect it to a large screen and keyboard and mouse.
So I’m going to plug this in here.  This is actually a simulation.  We don’t have the final prototype hardware ready yet to connect to HDMI.  So in this case I’ve taken my phone, I’ve plugged it in.  You can see right here it says tap for mouse and keyboard controller.  So right on that phone I could tap and then get like a mouse pad and use the phone screen as a mouse.  But, I don’t need to do that, because I actually have a Bluetooth mouse and keyboard that’s connected to the phone.
And when I plugged it in you see up here on this monitor through HDMI, I get the familiar Start menu coming from my phone.  They’re the same tiles on my phone and the same layout, and I can do things that will feel very PC-like all driven by my phone.  I’ll launch into PowerPoint.  I could go here, create a new slide; I could use the ribbon to insert a picture or other things.  I get a very rich, complete editing experience.
We’ll come back to the start menu.  You might be wondering what does mail look like?  You saw me show mail a little earlier.  When I run the mail app on the phone using this large screen mouse and keyboard it looks and feels exactly like the mail app on the PC, because in fact it’s the same code.  When I reply Word is invoked.  I get the familiar Word ribbon.  All of this is being driven from my phone.
In fact, the phone keeps working, here you can see I got a text while that was happening, Ann is asking me about this data in my expense report.  I can follow the text and right here on my phone I’m going to press and hold, choose copy, there we go.  I’ve now copied that text onto the clipboard and I can paste it right into my — the same Excel reporting spreadsheet.  Remember you saw Excel earlier?  Does it look familiar here?  It should, because it’s the same code.  But, here it is running on my phone.  I’ll press control V to paste, very familiar, and now I’ve updated this spreadsheet.  I’ll use the task switcher, you’ve seen that everywhere, I can switch back to e-mail, say done, and control enter to send, all of that on a phone.  
Thank you.
So now I’ve got one more topic, one last topic, one more topic, a couple of demos and I’m going to wrap up.  You saw when I started out I said I was coming here with a mission to convince you that end users are going to love Windows 10, and that you can bring that message back and you could explain why that’s true.
Now there’s a really great thing that end users are going to love that you’re going to love, too, which is that we’re making Windows 10 the most secure client platform we’ve ever delivered, the most secure client platform you can get, and you know what, users are going to love it.  They’re going to love it.  I know that’s a crazy thing to say.  They’re going to love it, because this is a security system that’s going to smile and wink at them, take steps away, and give them a flexible way to move documents around while protecting your company’s data.  So let me take a look more concretely at what I mean by that.
So I’m going to first do a demo of the combination of Windows Hello and Microsoft Passport.  Microsoft Passport is a technology that enables the replacement of passwords.  Think of Microsoft Passport as a cryptographically secure credential that’s stored on a device, it enables two-factor authentication.  You could have a phone and a PC serving as the two factors, but when you combine it with Windows Hello biometrics let users serve as an authentication mechanism that’s incredibly fast and easy.
So I’m going to — you see how it’s looking around for me.  I actually have the camera covered up with a black cloth.  And I have to do that, because this technology is so good and so fast, and by the way it’s also so secure, that as soon as I take it off it’s going to recognize my face and sign me in.  Now, I want you to think about the last time you’ve seen an end user get delighted by a security feature.  Now watch, here I go.  I’m going to take the cloth off.  One, two, three, done.  That’s it.
Now that is natural interaction on a PC delivering better security.  I didn’t have a password I had to write down somewhere, it’s not a password you have to store in your network that could get stolen, and it’s going to help with the problem of data leakage, and it’s going to delight end users.
Now the last thing I want to show is on that topic of data leakage.  And Brad Anderson is going to come up and talk about this a little bit more from your perspective and the ways that you can manage it.  But I want you to get an end-user perspective on it.
We’re building features into Windows 10 to enable enterprise data to be safe.  And you might say, well, we’ve got BitLocker already.  How are you improving that?  Well, with BitLocker, the end user faces an all or nothing decision for the entire drive to be encrypted, and it doesn’t provide for very much flexibility in the way files move around.  We’re solving those problems.  And, furthermore, we’re going to give you policy to control how your enterprise data moves between applications.
So I’m going to give you a few scenarios.  First, imagine I’m an employee at Contoso Electronics, and I’ve been writing this document, our secret Contoso Partnership Plan.  Now, because I’m at work on my work PC, when I save this you’ll notice, I’m going to save it into my documents folder, right here by default there’s a lock that’s displayed because my default action is to save the document encrypted.  We assume this is a work document, and when we save it encrypted in this case it’s going to be encrypted, imagine I’m a Microsoft employee in this case, it’s protected by the Microsoft Authentication Root.  So I’ll click save, and now this file is encrypted.
Now you might have noticed in that Save As dialog, and I’m going to come back here to give you a little bit more detailed look, some of the documents here are in green because they are also encrypted, and some of them are in black.  This is the system being smart enough to handle users being able to both do work-based documents but also do personal documents in a way that’s very simple and natural to manage.  And in this case I was doing this with the new Word 2016 Preview, but this capability can work for all apps as well.
Now there’s a whole bunch of scenarios that you expect to work in ways that are natural and will enhance security.  So as a first example, let’s say I have a bunch of old documents.  I did an upgrade.  Well, do I want these encrypted?  You can decide that, yes, I do.  I can simply right-click and encrypt those to Microsoft.com.  And voila, now they’re encrypted.
And now you want to think about the way people will move these around.  First, I might e-mail them to someone else.  And if I e-mail one of these documents to someone else at my company who is under the same encryption authority, they’ll be able to open and read the document.  Secondly, I might use things like USB drives.  In Windows 7 it wasn’t possible to do this.  But now, in Windows 8, if I want to take my Contoso Electronics Sales Proposal, put it on a USB drive and hand it to another employee, that employee will be able to open it, if they’re authorized to do so but that USB key is useless.
Think about the worst cases of data leakage being accidental loss things, or documents handed over by accident.  This kind of thing is going to make the right thing happen by default so accidents are far less likely to happen.
And then the last thing I want to show, I’m going to go to a SharePoint site.  Imagine you’re using SharePoint, users want to download a document.  So we’ll go here to this Fabrikam end-of-year analysis document.  I’m going to download a copy, save it into my documents directory, and when I do you’ll notice there’s that lock screen.  Right down at the bottom, this document comes down and as encrypted.
So what we’re doing is we’re making the right things happen by default.  And we’re giving you all the tools to set up the policies that are the right ones for individual employees within your organization so that natural things will happen within apps that they understand.
And one thing that’s important, although broadly we’re going to offer this kind of capability in Microsoft apps across platforms, within Windows 10 the platform itself understands this.  So you can take unmodified applications, define the policy for those, and roll them out to your end users in a way that’s natural and makes the right defaults happen.
Okay.    Thank you.  That is my quick look at why your end users are going to love Windows 10.  I’m going to now yield the stage with a last reminder to all of you that if you’re not signed up as Windows Insiders, please do now, download our builds, try them out.  Join the 3.7 million other people who have already done that.
Thank you very much for your time.  Next up will be Gurdeep Singh Pall.
  Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome Corporate Vice President Gurdeep Singh Pall.
  Good morning.  It’s great to be here talking to you.  You heard Joe show us some more personal computing with Windows 10.  It’s absolutely fantastic, very, very exciting.  I’m going to talk to you about reinventing productivity.
Now Satya started by saying that the world has changed.  Yes, the world has changed, and it’s changing faster and faster.  Technology is the single most important reason that the world is changing.  I remember, it just feels like yesterday, a little over 20 years I was a developer working on building the TCP/IP protocol to work over slow networks inside Windows.  And the Internet had not yet become mainstream.
Today the world is very different.  There’s about 20-22,000 of you here.  And I bet about 5,000 of you are tweeting right now about maybe 4-500 are posting up pictures on Instagram, and, yes, even as I speak, some of you are swiping right on Tinder.    Everything is connected.  Everyone is connected.  And it’s all because of technology.
Now the fundamental changes that are happening in technology are really coming from increase in compute, from usage, artificial intelligence, but these are having profound implications on your and my world.  Businesses and industries are getting disrupted fast.  You know we had never heard of companies like Uber, or even what I work on, Skype, until they came in and disrupted industries very fast.  And the reason that happened is because these companies were enabled by, encumbered by the old technology that was in place.  So they came in with the inertia of the new technology.  And this means that the way we, in our business today, it’s not sufficient for us to be sending around attachments in emails.  It is no longer sufficient for us to be having meetings over audioconferencing bridges with 20 people on a call and five dogs barking in the background.  
You know, Jack Welch said this really, really well.  He said if the rate of change on the outside exceeds the rate of change on the inside, the end is near.  That is so true today.  In fact, as an illustration, in 1955 of the companies that were on the Fortune 500 list stayed on an average for 75 years on that list.  This year, they stay on an average 15 years on that list.  Now, this isn’t some pedantic rhetoric that I’m just giving out to you guys.  This applies to Microsoft as well.  We have to keep up with that change just the way you have to.
Now while technology is the catalyst of change, the millennials are the carriers of this change.  Now the millennials, they’re an interesting group to study.  Now the midpoint of the Millennial Era is when they were born, when they became aware, the Internet was in place.  Many of them owned a smartphone before they learned how to drive a car.  They think different.  They live different.  They talk different.  The other day my son comes up and says, YOLO.    I had to go Bing it.
And they work different, too.  They work different.  They work in a virtual hive, and the reason that is important to you is by 2020 the majority of your workforce will be millennials.  In fact, a couple of interesting data points.  Since 2010, 10,000 millennials — sorry, baby boomers hit retirement age every day in the U.S., 10,000 baby boomers hit the retirement age every day.  I was talking to the CIO of one of the largest U.S. counties.  He told me that in three years 62 percent of the workforce are going to hit retirement age.  That means by the time we turn around, next year, next few years, we’re going to have millennials really filling our workforce, workplaces.  So with this advancement in technology and millennials coming into our workforce, we really have to envision a new, modern workplace.
So what does that look like?  Well, No. 1, the name “workplace” itself is a misnomer.  It’s a misnomer because work is what you do, it’s not where you go.  People will work from wherever they are with whatever devices they have, and they’ll work on their own time.  That is the first thing.
The second thing is that individual productivity is super important, but team productivity will be critical because it’s a team of people who are accomplishing stuff, which becomes even more challenging when you consider that they’re working from their own place.  They’re not all sitting around in a cluster of cubicles.
The serial, chunky workflow that has really served us well over the last 20 years is not going to serve us well in the future.  It is all about co-creation and rapid iteration.  So the environments really have to support that.  Information is a lot more open, so people discover things for themselves rather than having to be fed information.  Finding solutions is important, figuring out solutions may not be that important.  Tapping into global expertise is very important.  So the environment really has to support this.
In some ways, the modern workplace metaphorically is like a hive being built with many workers working independently but in a coordinated manner with a shared sense of goal without requiring any direction from the queen bee.
Now at Microsoft, we consider ourselves the custodians of productivity.  And as the custodians of productivity, we have to be there with the right tools for the right work environment so that you can bring it to your businesses and you can succeed in the coming decades.  There are five big areas that we are focused on to enable this modern productivity.
Teams, we have a huge focus on teams.  Now teams form quickly nowadays, they get going quickly, they collaborate heavily and they achieve results.  Teams are not something which exists over 18 months or two years.  Sometimes teams accomplish their goals within hours, within weeks.  Therefore, it should be very, very simple to create teams very, very quickly.
That is why we have done a lot of work in Office 365 to allow anyone to quickly create a group in Office 365.  They shouldn’t have to come to you, IT, to say create a group for me.  You guys have way better things to do than drag in all these admin consoles enabling groups.  So we made groups super, super simple, because a group, a digital representation of a team, is a first-class object that we use for membership and authorization.  You can send emails to the group, you can have folders of shared information with the group.  With one click you can start a meeting with a group.  This is the work that we are really doing on teams
Working from anywhere.  Now this is really, really important as well in the new world.  Now we are focused on the mobile experience of the user because the user is mobile.  I’m sorry, the phone is not mobile.  If you don’t believe me, one day leave your phone on the desk and walk away and see if it moves anywhere.    So it’s critical that you make sure that the mobile experience of the user across devices throughout the day really happens.  That’s what we’re focused on.
Now, Windows 10 is the most productive environment ever.  Nothing comes close.  What you saw with Joe was absolutely fantastic.  We are also providing Office and Skype on all platforms, on iOS, on Android and iPad.
Now, in the last year itself we’ve had more than 100 million downloads of Office alone, once we provided it on these platforms.  On the 14th of February this year, yes, Valentine’s Day, we hit a very important mark for Skype, 500 million downloads on Google Play with Skype.  So we’re really going where the users are, where your users are today.  We are very, very excited for this reason about Office 2016 Public Preview.
I’m going to ask you, all of you, to go down to the conference floor and find time to get Office 2016 Public Preview installed on all your devices, and please give us feedback.  We want to make sure that this is a great product for your users.
The third thing, very near and dear to my heart, which we are focused on, is making meetings really, really effective.  Now meetings today are not in-person at the same place type of affairs.  OK.  Most meetings have remote attendees.  Now these meetings aren’t those audioconference affairs either, you know the ones with five dogs barking in the background.  The remote attendee can no longer be a second-class citizen in meetings.  Almost every attendee is going to be remote.
And one of the things that makes it most effective to be a remote attendee is video.  We are making a huge bet on video.  That is why we have brought the Skype interface onto Skype for Business.  Half of all Skype calls, which is billions of minutes a day, are actually done with video.  And we are bringing that same familiar experience into your work.
Now the reason video is important is because 55 percent of all communications is body language.  I see some skepticism.  If you don’t believe me try watching the Mayweather and Pacquiao game match without video.  Now not that all meetings should be about boxing, like boxing matches.  But, you get my point.  Video remains very, very important.
Now it also cannot take 30 minutes to start a meeting.  That’s what it takes to get an average video call set up with some of this videoconferencing gear.  You want a one-touch way to get into a meeting and have a high-fidelity video conversation.  That’s why the work that we’ve done with Surface Hubs is very, very important, and you will see it.
That’s why the work that we’re doing with partners like Polycom, Crestron, SMART with Skype Room Systems is very, very important across a variety of price points, but lots more affordable than any of the videoconferencing gear that you might have seen in the past.  And we are also taking meetings like Skype meetings, making it very, very easy to broadcast them to 10,000 people or more in case you have larger team meetings where you want to get to anybody anywhere, not just inside your enterprise, can join in and tune in to that particular meeting.
Now meetings certainly are very, very important for productivity.  But we believe that some of the emergent devices and form factors are going to fundamentally change how people collaborate as well.
Just to look at one of these, can you please roll the video?
Now folks that isn’t some heavily produced video.  That device is real and it has Skype built into it.  With Skype you have the most modern experience that you can get today.  So if you’re still using WebEx and GoToMeeting, and products from the last decade, stop doing that.  You can use your money on better things.  
Let’s talk about content co-creation.  In this new world I talked about you cannot have serialized workflow.  Everything gets created, co-created, quick iterations, people working on the same documents and putting them together.  In fact, that is sort of a millennial habit, as well.  But, this is critical for how we work.  We can’t have attachments going back and forth between people.  And that is why with Office 2016 we have made co-creation of documents just natural with Word 2016.  And that is huge, everything is saved into OneDrive, everything is shared from OneDrive, everything is set up without any more steps for you to co-create.  So there’s sort of innate collaboration built into these rich products.
Last, but not least, is intelligence.  This is a huge and important aspect of the modern workplace.  Now, in 2013 there was 4.4 zettabytes of data in the world.  In 2020 there’s going to be 44 zettabytes of data in the world.  OK, that’s 1 million terabytes.  I’m still counting the zeros.  I think it’s about 21 or something.  There’s actually a lot of data.  That’s the kind of information that can completely inundate you.  And we know we can’t even keep up with inundated inboxes nowadays.  So how do we deal with this?
So we are working very, very hard to make sure that all this data can actually be made sense of with intelligent indexing, with inferences, and that is what we are enabling with the Office Graph.  The Office Graph is an intelligent fabric which will enable a whole lot of intelligent experiences for us.  Now the reason that is important is, I remember, I think it was about even 15 years ago we used to talk a lot about really user-friendly applications.  User-friendly applications are really going to be replaced by intelligent applications, and all that is going to happen with the Office Graph.
Office Delve is a great application which shows you how to bring relevant content in front of you when you need it, to find experts when you need them.  Today for the first time we’ll show you an organizational analytics feature of Delve, which we’ve never shown you before.  So this is the really, really important point, because either information is going to consume you, or it is going to provide a huge step in human productivity and that’s where we are investing.
Rather than me talk more about this I would like to invite my colleague Julia White to come and show you these five investment areas that we have in action.
Julia?
  Thanks, Gurdeep.
All right.  Gurdeep talked about the modern way of working.  I’m going to show you what that looks like using Office 365, including Skype for Business, and of course the awesome Surface Hub.  Now in this case, this demo, I am a team leader and I’m working on an important product launch of a 3-D printer product.  And I’m going to start my day here in Delve, that intelligent application.  And underneath Delve is the Office Graph, that has all the signals from my content and my actions that can serve up for me the most relevant, important information based on what I’m doing right now and what’s going on around me.
As I scroll down you can see there’s information from all across Office 365, but there’s also information here from Salesforce, because we’ve extended the Office Graph, now with a new API, so other people can integrate into the graph.  So now as a user I have all of the information that’s most relevant to me right there in one place.
Now, I see that — I told you my 3-D printer project is the most important thing to me.  So it’s no surprise that right at the top here I have this new video that the teams created for this launch.  So I’m going to go ahead and check that out.  And it takes me right into the Office 365 video portal.  This is the YouTube for the enterprise.  I can manage all of my video content here, I handle permissions, different channels, maybe there’s a sales channel, a training channel, and just the right people have the right access, and on the back end Azure Meeting Service is doing all the hard work of the video encoding and making sure it renders great on all my different devices, as well.
Now this video, I don’t really love this image.  I think I need a little bit of different creative work.  So I’m going to go back to Delve and I’m going to search for someone to help me spruce up this video a little bit.  So I’m going to search for someone who knows something about design.  And I’ll use it the intelligent enterprise search with Delve and I find this UX design group.  This is a new Office 365 group experience.  And I see in this group here it’s a bunch of people who have come together around design, and I can see all the content trending around them.
If I go into the profile of that group right here I have a new view of this Office 365 Group’s Hub, I can see all the content related to the group, meetings, things in OneDrive, emails, and notebooks even, as well, and members.  So it’s a great single place.  I also can even see who’s online right now.  Now I know Jim and I’ve worked with him before.  So I’m going to go ahead and click right in to see Jim.  And I see that right over here it actually shows me the skills he has, UX design and video production.
So hey, for all of my SharePoint people out there, hopefully you recognize this as a next-gen expertise search.  But this is better, because it’s actually auto-populated by the Office Graph.  So it’s much more insightful, and your users don’t have to do the work of completing their profiles to get those insights in there.
All right.  Now, Jim is online so I can just IM him right from here to ask him if he’s willing to help me out with that great Skype for Business experience.
Now this is a new Skype for Business experience where I can video, I can VOIP, I can IM with anyone.  And we’ve actually integrated the consumer network as well.  So as a Skype for Business user, I can actually go out and search for people in the consumer network.  Maybe I’m a doctor with a patient, or I’m interviewing employees this way as well.
But you can see it’s a very Skype-inspired experience.  So, for example, I want to say, “hey, video ninja,” because he’s kind of a ninja I understand, uses awesome emoticons, and then say, “need your help.”  There we go.  So you can see I like those cool emoticons.  But it’s a very familiar consumer experience that we’ve brought into the workplace.
So there’s millions and millions of people that Gurdeep mentioned are using the consumer experience, which is friendly and familiar as I drop in. But on the back end you have all of the enterprise controls and manageability that you’ve expected from Lync.  So it’s really bringing together the best of both worlds into this experience.
All right.  So Jim is thinking about getting back to me.  So we’re going to assume he’s willing to help me, and we’re going to just keep rolling from there.  So he’s going to help me, so I’m going to go ahead and move over to my 3-D launch team.  And I want to add him to this Office 365 group around the launch product.  And you can see I can just click right over here and add him.  As Gurdeep mentioned, I don’t have to hassle IT with mundane tasks, because you have much better things to do.  And I can just add this and manage the group myself.
But, again, from a group perspective I have that Skype integration, so I can do a group message here, or even a group meeting with a single click.  It’s that simple to bring my group together.
Speaking of meetings, I feel like I’m spending a lot of time in meetings, probably because of this product launch.  But I want to go use this new experience that Gurdeep mentioned, this Delve Org Analytics, to find out what’s really happening with my time and what’s going on across my organization.  So here for the first time is an early sneak peek into this new experience that will be coming to Office 365 later this year.  And it might look a little different because we’re going to get a lot of feedback from you and many others about what this should be before it’s final.
But essentially think of it as your health tracker for your work.  And I can tap into all the information, again, in the Office Graph, all those signals to understand my time, my interactions and that of my team as well.  You can see I have a view of my team’s interactions.  I even have things like my work-life balance based on communications I’m sending out of office time.
And then, if I go down here, I see my meeting time, this is the number of business hours spent in meetings, and man, I’m in 60 percent.  And that’s getting this insightful notification, again, based on this information in the graph that I’m 12 percent more than the company average.  By clicking, I can even see a trend line of how my meeting time compares to the broader organization.  It’s a great new insight.
But I want to take a look at what’s going on with my team as well.  So I’m going to go click into this Work Map to get a sense of all the different connections.  Those lines and the thickness of the lines symbolize the intensity of the interactions between these different organizations.  Now I know that I’m spending a lot of time in meetings.  I want to go and see what’s happening from a team level as well.
So I’m going to go over here and pick just my meetings for the team and see what happens.  See when I do that, you see the intensity changes, but also some really insightful things just popped.  There’s actually no meetings taking place between the sales team and the product team.  The meetings are happening only with my team.  We’re kind of the intersection between those two organizations.
Well, I don’t want that.  That’s certainly a missing connection, and we need to get the sales and the product teams talking directly.  Well, it turns out my next meeting is with the product team, so I can just go ahead and add the sales team to it and get that done and make that connection.
So here I am in Outlook 2016, great new app.  I’m going to go ahead into this launch meeting, where I have the product team, and I’m going to add the sales team as well.  And that can be a distribution list, or it can also be an Office 365 group, because it works across all aspects of Office 365.
So I’ve got them added.  And as you see here, I have this attachment that we’re going to work on during the meeting.  But hopefully you notice that little cloud means it’s not actually an attachment.  This is a link out to my OneDrive for Business account.  So when we go into the meeting and share this, we’re all working on one version, not different attachments.
All right, so before that meeting starts I have a few minutes.  So I’m going to go over and check out the conversation going on around that launch group.  So I’m in my Outlook 2016 experience down here in groups.  I can just go to that, launching that same Office 365 group, and you can see there’s a conversation happening, and it actually is in a conversation way, it goes top to bottom, so I have a sense that it’s not my Inbox, this is actually a group conversation.  And I can reply here.
But I see that they’re actually talking about needing to share the launch plans with our events team, and whether we should do that.  Well, I definitely think we should.  So I’m just going to go ahead and do it while I’m in here.  So I’m going to go ahead and send a new email.  I’m going to send it to Bonnie, who is in the Events team.  And you notice she’s outside my organization.  That’s OK, I can share with her as well.
And when I go to attach that, you see I get with the new Office 2016 experience my most recently used documents right there.  So that’s kind of how we work.  We’re working on a document and we want to share it, it’s the last thing we’ve been working on.  So it makes it so easy, I don’t have to go browse for it.  So I’ll go ahead and grab that launch plan, and you’ll see again it’s not actually putting an attachment on there.  It’s actually creating a link, sharing it from OneDrive for Business.  And I can go ahead if I want and I can change the permissions.  If I want to do it the old-fashioned way, I can attach a copy, but I’m not going to do that.  And when I hit send, all the permissioning is handled.  Bonnie has access.  I don’t have to go somewhere else and manage my permissions.  It’s all done right there.  And we’re all going to be working on one version.  We’re working in a modern way with a single click.
So hopefully you see with Office 365 this integrated experience from a user perspective, it’s truly easier and better than all those consumer cloud storage options, and you get all of the enterprise controls to manage the content on the back end.  Again, the best of both worlds in that experience.
All right.  I’m going to go ahead and jump into that meeting and get started here.  I’ll go ahead and join to my Skype client.  And it loads it up, and I’ll get dropped in right into a rich video, multiparty video experience because, as Gurdeep said, without video you’re really not getting almost half of the communication experience going on.
So I have my thing here.  Now I have that attachment, right, I’m going to go ahead and load that up.  When I do that, it’s going to pull that shared document from OneDrive, and it actually is launching Word Online.  And it’s going to do that for me, and it’s going to do that for all of the participants as well.  And I keep my video feed here.  Here’s the active speaker.  So I can be dialoguing while we’re all in this document doing that real-time co-auth that we’ve been showing you in that online experience.
And again it’s not just presenting this in Outlook.  We’re actually all in the document working together doing that co-creation experience.  You can see there’s four other people editing at the same time.
Now we’ve been talking about this in the online experience for a while.  But now I’m very excited to show you for the first time ever that we have taken that real-time co-auth experience and brought it to the desktop app as well.  So let me go ahead and launch Word 2016 here, where we will show you for the first time how this looks just the same and just as rich in the desktop experience.
So as I drop in, you see there they are, my co-authors, they’re editing right there.  There’s Sven, there’s Kimberley.  I’m seeing pixel by pixel exactly what’s happening in the document.  You can really, truly do that co-creation experience right on the desktop or online.    Perfect.  I’m glad you’re as excited as I am about that.
So the launch plan is looking good.  I’m going to let the team keep working on that, and I’m going to head off to my next meeting.  But, of course, as I’m walking to my next meeting, I want to make the most of my time, and I like to work on all my devices, too.  So I’m going to go ahead and grab my iPhone here to do some email on the way to the meeting.
Now we know there’s been a lot of, there has been a lot of mobile email use.  But there actually hasn’t been a lot of email productivity on mobile devices until recently, and that’s thanks to the new Outlook experiences we have across all the platforms.  Here I’ll show you on the iPhone.
If I go in, and you can see that it’s a rich app.  I have email, I have calendar, even great attachment handling, too.  And I can just swipe, maybe I want to go this way.  I’ve customized these swipes, too, so I can change that to whatever I want to do on this side, and swipe this way, too, because we know we all have very unique ways we want to manage our email, and so we let you customize this to make it most efficient for you.
Again, this really powerful new app is again on iOS, Android, and in preview on Windows 10, too.  And later Brad is actually going to show you how to manage this app, which is super important.
But I see that I have this email from Ben here, and he wants me to review this Sway that he created for the launch.  So I’m going to go ahead and do that right here on my phone, too.
And Sway is a gorgeous, interactive canvas for sharing your ideas.  It’s the newest member of the Office family.  And I’m excited, as you can see and go through, it’s rich, it’s got the animation.  I can even click through and see my different, like, photo stacks, really beautiful even on a small device, but looks great on a large device as well.
I’m very excited to announce today that Sway will be coming to the O365 Business and Education service plans next month.  So all of you who have been Swaying in your personal life, now you can Sway at work, too.  
All right.  So now I’m in my meeting here in the conference room, and of course I’m using the amazing Surface Hub.
But first let’s talk about this device, stunning 84-inch, 4k, ultra-high-def, 120 hertz, multitouch device.  This is the largest one in the market.  And in it is built-in cameras, mics, speakers, CPU, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, NFC.  Literally, all I need is a power cord and I’m ready to go.  And it’s really designed from the ground up for collaboration in the room and across the world.  It really lets you unlock that power of the group.
And also this is a conference room device that will actually get used, because it’s so easy and it’s awesome.
So let’s talk about how simple it is.  So we have the Skype integration right there, so let me get started.  All I have to do is join the meeting with a single touch.  Everyone can do that, and let’s go ahead and say yeah, that one, and it drops us right into the view.  And as we would in any kind of meeting, go into the video call here and a whiteboard as well.  Let’s try that again.  All right, we’re going to get the Skype meeting going.  Let’s try that one more time.  Simple to reset as well, as you can see.  We can do that.
All right, let’s try it one more time here, get our call going.  Here we go.  All right.
And you can see actually you can switch the cameras across, too, depending on where you’re standing, so a very natural experience.
All right, so as the video loads up, I’m going to go ahead and start inking on my digital whiteboard, again very, very natural inking experience.  And I can say, hey, for the meeting today I want to look at the sales pipeline, and I want to look at the launch deck, too.
But you know what, because it’s actually a virtual whiteboard, I can change my mind and it’s very simple.  So I can just go down here and I can grab that item, and I can move it up and say, you know what, I want to talk about the launch deck first.
  That’s right.  And, of course, if we’re going to do the sales pipeline, we should really get Luke in on the call.
  Oh, right.  And this is how real work happens.  We start talking about something, and we realize the right person is not in the meeting.  That’s OK, it’s super easy to invite them.  So let me just go over here and add Luke as well, because we always have to have Luke Skywalker, too, to go drop him an invite.
Hello, Star Wars friend.  May the Force be with you.  Awesome.  
All right, now, of course, it’s more than just whiteboarding, it’s also about sharing content as well.
So we’ll go ahead and why don’t you pull up that launch deck so we can take a look at it?  And you see it kind of connects directly with the Surface Pro, which is great.
And it’s not just a projection, though, it’s a two-way experience.  So if I go ahead and swipe, you see that it works here, but it’s also actually controlling the Surface over there as well.  So if Ben wants to go ahead and move forward, you can see that goes as well.  So it’s a two-way experience.
But the same goes for inking as well, again natural experience.  Maybe I want to talk about this and maybe move it over here.  You’ll see it’s actually showing up on the Surface, again that two-way experience, and the same with Ben.
And this could be true for anyone who’s on the video experience as well.  They can be interacting really naturally.  It’s all that ink back and touch back experience.
All right, so the deck looks good.  Let’s go ahead and switch over and look at that sales pipeline.
So here I am in my CRM Online experience where I can get all of my sales information, my pipeline, I can see the leads that are happening as well.
But I want to do a little deeper analysis than this.  So I’ve actually pulled this out into a Power BI dashboard so I can do some deeper analysis.  And here I have my dashboard pulled up.  It looks again, simple, beautiful with touch, too.
Now, this shows revenue by territory.  I want to know a bit more about that, so I’ll go ahead and select in there, and kind of get the click-down, which again is a dashboard view.  I can keep drilling deeper and deeper with Power BI.
And I see here I have gross margin and I have gross revenue.  What I really wish is I actually have the combination of those two things.  Well, with Power BI I can do that.  Let me just go ahead and grab that chart, and I can pull it right up and lay it on top.  And Power BI does the work to actually combine those two datasets, put it in a new visualization of a scatter chart that actually is based on the data, the best way to visualize that information, all that simple, with a single swipe.
Now, that’s the analysis I want, and again it’s simple, I can go back to my whiteboard experience, I can add some new insights as well, making it very simple.
And then when I’m done with all this, too, I can just go ahead and I could email it right from here, and I could share it back to my personal OneNote or I could email it right from here as well.  Because it’s a shared device, I want to save all this back, and when I’m done with the meeting all I have to do is hit the “I’m done” at the bottom, and it takes all of the information off of it, clears it off for the next meeting to come in, so I don’t have to worry about information being left behind or even erasing my whiteboard, too.
Well, I’m not going to say I’m done just because, because actually I’m going to flip over and show you that we’ve been doing this entire presentation actually using the new Skype Broadcast experience.
Go in here, I’ll flip back over here.  Here, in fact, is that brand-new Skype Broadcast experience that Satya announced this morning.  And you can see I have the video feed, I can have content and I even have social sentiment analysis with Bing Analysis over here, so I can actually see the audience view and what the feedback is about the presentation.
And this is the attendee experience.  And they can drop in, go back, real time or forward.  So maybe you came to the meeting late, you can go back and catch up.  All of that is totally possible.
Now, I can pull up the producer view on the screen, too, so you can see what that looks like.  But with some really simple controls, you can decide the video feed, you can decide whether it’s content.  And we’ve designed this to make it so easy that anyone can run this.  So we don’t have any more expensive, complex systems for doing broadcast meetings.  It’s just part of Skype and Office 365.
And when the video is all done, I can just go and post it right back to my Office 365 video portal for people to watch later as well.  So thanks, Ben.
So what I showed you is just one example of the product launch team being productive across the Microsoft cloud and hardware experiences.  This truly is productivity in a cloud-first, mobile-first world.
With that, back to Gurdeep.  
  That was great.  That really is the modern workplace.
You know, we’re really focused on between Windows 10 and the work that’s happening with Office and Skype, we’re focused on giving you the best experience so that you and your businesses can win in your respective areas.
You see teams working fluidly across email, IM, video, content co-creation.  You saw how we went from the phone to the Surface Hub.  We talked about the mobility of the experience.
You’ve seen how easily it becomes full Windows with the continuum feature.  You’ve seen a lot of intelligence that is baked into the experiences of tomorrow.
Now, you know, the whole point here is to make sure that you don’t have to go staple together many different things because, frankly, in this environment, you can be so much more productive.  It’s kind of like every part designed to fit into an Aston Martin so it give you high performance.  Gives high performance for your users.
Now, 10 years ago, all this would have meant a lot of work that you would have to do to set this up.  But today, all that is just enabled with a click on Office 365.
Now, I’m sure for you as well, I joined tech, IT, because I really wanted to work with tech.  I wanted to work with shiny, new gadgets.  Face it, we’re not James Bond.  Well, I’m not at least.  But I’ll tell you what we are.  We are Q.  We are Q in James Bond because we get to work with the coolest gadgets, the coolest tech.  We take that to our users and we really, really empower them.
And what we would like you to do is with all these products we’re showing you, we want you to take them back to your users, your workers, and make them super, super productive.
Now, we’ve talked about the modern workplace.  Brad is going to come up and talk to you, how do you enable this modern workplace inside your businesses in a way that you protect your businesses so we can manage it for your users.
Thank you very much.  
  Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome Satya Nadella.  
  Good morning and welcome to Ignite.  It is fantastic to be here in Chicago.  We have a fantastic lineup today of the keynotes and a great conference.
In fact, this is the very first Ignite, and we felt in this time of change and opportunity, it was very important to bring all of our IT communities together, because to seize this opportunity it is going to take all of our collective skills and ingenuity to be able to take all of this technology innovation and to bridge it to true business transformation and success.  That’s what Ignite is all about, and that is what IT professionals are all about.  And so we felt that we wanted to come together as one community.
In fact, it’s the very same opportunity that is driving Microsoft’s transformation.  If I look at what has happened even in the last 12 months, we are changing.  We have significant momentum.  And that momentum comes from you all.  Every business out there now is a software company, is a digital company.  And so it creates an amazing opportunity for Microsoft, which is greater than ever before, in terms of driving the impact of our products and technologies.
That’s what’s in fact shaping the product innovation that you’re going to hear a lot about today.  It’s fundamentally changing what we build, how we build and how we deliver.
It’s not just about technology.  It goes far beyond that.  It is even the approach we take to our business.  It is how we partner, how we create the flexibility that speaks to the real-world needs of our customers.  That is the transformation that is afoot, that’s the momentum that we have inside of Microsoft, driven by you.
The source of this transformation is the enduring mission of Microsoft.  It is to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more.
We are the only company that cares deeply about both individuals and organizations, and bringing them together to achieve transformation.
We’re the only company that cares deeply about taking the technology that we have and making it available to every company in every vertical industry in all parts of the globe.
And when we talk about empowerment, and empowerment of both people and organizations, it of course has to start by empowering you all as IT professionals.  In fact, that has been the trend that we have had when we talked to our business users at Convergence, when we talked to developers last week at Build, and this week here to IT professionals.  It’s that magic that gets created, that happens when we can harmonize the interests and the impact that comes together when you bring end users, developers and IT professionals together.
And that’s what Microsoft has always stood for, that’s what we as a company have always done, and we now get to do it in a new IT landscape of mobile first, cloud first.
It is important when we say mobile first, cloud first to spend a few minutes understanding not just where we are in this revolution, but more importantly where the arc of technology is going, because that’s what we all are in business for.
When we say mobile first, it is not the mobility of a single device that matters.  In fact, it is the most irrelevant thing.  What matters is the mobility of the experience across all of the computing devices in our lives.  And that only happens because the cloud enables it.
When we talk about cloud first, it is the cloud back-end for all of your devices, all of your applications, all of your data, and, in fact, it is about adding intelligence to your experiences.
So we want to have a broad sense of what a distributed cloud infrastructure is that supports the variety of workloads that are going to create not today, not tomorrow, but over the coming years.
So that’s the broad definition of mobile first, cloud first that we should start with.  That’s the understanding that we need to have as we drive the technology choices going forward.
Every layer of our IT stack is going to be profoundly impacted.  We’re going to have a proliferation of devices.  There are going to be more devices than people on the planet.  And this is not even counting all of the sensors that are going to be running general-purpose compute.
That means there are going to be applications that are going to get deployed to all of these computing end points.  These applications are both going to generate data and consume data at unprecedented levels.
And all of this is going to require the distributed cloud infrastructure that we all will need to provision to support them.
And, of course, it’s not just these tiers of technology.  These tiers of technology live within a landscape or a context where things like security, privacy, regulation, data sovereignty will all matter.
So this sets up, in fact, our context.  It, in fact, sets up even the tension that we have as we look out to manage this changing IT landscape.
We want to be able to enable our end users to have the friction-free mobile experiences, to make their own choices in some cases for their devices, but yet we need to be able to ensure the security, the management.
We want to enable our business units to be able to choose the SaaS applications of their choice, and yet we want to be able to have the compliance and control and efficiency.
We, of course, are going to manage the data deluge that we are going to be faced with.  We are going to have the sophisticated data lakes, data marts, data warehouses to store and process all of this information.
But just because you have big data doesn’t mean your organization is going to have the insight, but that’s what we are really in pursuit of.
We also will make choices or have to create the balance between when and how we use the public cloud for which workloads, how do we build out the private clouds, when do we create the hybrid cloud infrastructure, because the diversity of the workloads we deal with is going to require that.
And, of course, all of this challenge is something that we have to do while we have all the challenges of IT spend.
But therein in this challenge lies the opportunity for IT.  We move IT from delivering information technology in our organization to driving the innovation and transformation in our organization.  That is the theme of this conference, that’s the theme of Ignite.
And that, in fact, is the driver of our company’s strategy.  We want to be the productivity and platform company in a mobile-first, cloud-first world.  We want to deliver those platforms, productivity and business process services that you in turn can use to achieve your business transformation.  That is the core to our strategy.
And the way we are going to drive our strategy is to focus on three interlocking ambitions that we’re going to talk about throughout this conference.
The first, it is about the era of more personal computing.  Second is it’s about reinventing the very nature of work with productivity and business process coming together.  And lastly, it is about building the intelligent cloud back-end for the world’s applications.
These are the three big technology agendas we have, these are the big ambitions we as a company have, and they all interlock to create that one platform for you to be able to use to transform your business.
So let’s talk a little bit in depth on each one of these areas, first, more personal computing.
The core vision behind more personal computing is about the notion that what matters most in our devices is the mobility of the human experience across the devices.
We also want to make sure that the way the human interaction is mediated across all of these devices is done in the most natural of fashions.  That is the reason why we are investing very heavily to make sure that all the various natural interface modalities, from speech to ink to touch to even holograms and mouse and keyboard, are all available depending on the context, depending on the device, depending on the use case.
And in a world where we talk about more personal computing, by definition you’re using personal data.  And so therefore it is very important for us to build trust into the core of the operating system, because we want to ensure that the data is being used to benefit the user and the organization.  And that’s not something that’s a bolt-on, you’ve got to build that in, starting with the way you authenticate and authorize personal information.
We also are creating new categories.  This is not just about having great PCs, which of course Windows 10 will ensure we have, but we are also breaking new ground in terms of the categories that we want to create.
The two-in-ones now have become mainstays, tablets that can replace your laptop.  You’re going to see other form factors today.  You’re going to see a Surface Hub that is a big-screen touchscreen with ink.  You’re going to see a holographic computer where vision or computer vision is the input, and the output is holograms.  These are new personal computing devices that are going to be part of our digital life and work.  And it requires us to bring together innovation in silicon, hardware and software together, and this is where we will have a rich ecosystem of partners as well.
Perhaps the most profound change is how we think about Windows.  Windows 10 for me is not just another release of Windows, it is a new generation of Windows, and it’s about Windows delivered as a service.
In fact, I want to announce today a new capability, which I think is going to have significant impact in the coming years in how we deliver the Windows value in the enterprise.
Windows Update today has significant reach in consumer PCs, and we want to add new capabilities with Windows Update for business where it’s going to fundamentally change how we deliver the compatibility, the security and productivity of knowledge-worker PCs and workstations.
So now let’s talk about the second big area of technology innovation for us, reinventing productivity and business process.
First, it is about building for dual use.  We know the choices that users make around their core productivity needs when it comes to anything around communication and collaboration.  This is where they don’t want to have that schism between what they use at work and what they use in their lives.  And that’s the reason why our innovation between OneDrive, OneDrive for Business, Skype, Skype for Business, Outlook and Exchange, all of these span both your digital life and work and dual use, and it’s a very important investment for us.
Equally important for us is bringing together both the communication, collaboration and creation tools with business process, because a fundamental way to improve productivity is to have business process in the context of your productivity tools and communication tools.  And there is an amazing opportunity Microsoft has to both open up what we do as a platform and to create that convergence.
Everything that we are building is going to be built for this mobile world where the mobility of the experience across devices matters, where social collaboration and co-creation is core to what we do.
All of the experiences will have intelligence built into it.
And you would have noticed that even in the last 12 months, we have been innovating in new categories.  It’s not just about Word, Excel, PowerPoint.  Of course, we have those tools that are now available on every device on the planet.  But it’s more important that we keep on the forefront of innovation.
It’s new categories like Sway, and I had a chance to meet some kids in education using Sway to create interactive documents like never before, and I believe that every marketing department and every sales department is going to be creating their artifacts using Sway.
What has happened with OneNote, in terms of the radical change in OneNote, in terms of organizing all of the information that you have, Power BI, Cortana and even our sales productivity solution where we’ve brought CRM and our collaboration tools together, these are innovations that are coming to market as we execute on our vision of bringing both productivity innovation and business process innovation.
Of course, one of the things that is key to us as we think about all this new innovation is to do it in ways such that you can have end users make their choices in friction-free ways, but you as IT professionals can have the compliance and governance.  So right in the core of all of our services is built in all of the things that are needed from a control plane perspective for you as IT professionals, and you’ll hear a lot more about that throughout today’s keynote.
And I’m very pleased to announce at this conference Office 2016 going into a new public preview.  We are going to have Skype for Business, have broadcasting features.  We also are continuously advancing the state of the art of Office Delve, which is this intelligence feed of Office, with new capabilities around organizational analytics.  And we will show you all of these as the keynote proceeds.
Now let’s talk about the intelligent cloud.
At the core of the intelligent cloud is the back-end infrastructure that drives all of your enterprise mobility needs, because in order to be able to have that mobility of experience you need that cloud back-end, and the innovation in the Enterprise Mobility Suite gives you that control plane.
Driving application agility, if there is one thing that is true in our lives today, it is the agility that we need to have in terms of creation of new value, new applications.  And so what we do in terms of dev-ops and new workflows to create things and maintain things and manage things, that’s where you need the best tooling and platforms coming together, and that’s where innovation in Visual Studio, Visual Studio Online, as well as Azure and our server infrastructure come together.
Unlocking insights from big data, as I said earlier, it’s not just about having all of the variety of big data infrastructure, which is important, but it’s about being able to have tools like Power BI to be able to get the insights that each of us need inside of our organization.
And it’s also about transforming our datacenter so that you have the flexibility to be able to drive the choices that you make in terms of public cloud deployment, private cloud deployment, or even tiering the two together to achieve what you want to achieve.
We have a huge set of announcements to make in this area at this conference.  You’re going to have a preview release of Windows Server and System Center 2016, which is an amazing set of server releases which enable private cloud.  In fact, the Azure stack is going to make it possible for you to have Azure in your datacenter, which is consistent with the public cloud Azure.
SQL 2016 is perhaps the biggest breakthrough in database technology that you have ever seen.  It is some fantastic technology that you’re going to get a quick preview today, but in the coming months you’re going to get a chance to look at what we have done in terms of creating an infinite database where you can take even a single table in SQL 2016, your datacenter, and stretch it to Azure, without any of your applications having to change, without having any of the queries you write to SQL having to change.  So it’s some breakthrough technology that’s now going to be embedded into SQL 2016.
The Operations Management Suite is something that I’m very excited about.  Just like the Enterprise Mobility Suite was about to building that IT control plane for everything from identity management to device management to data protection, we now have an Operations Management Suite that is going to have one consistent IT control plane for all of your virtual machines, all of your servers, irrespective of which datacenter they are in, in terms of disaster recovery, backup, in terms of being able to do log analytics, server health and availability, and most importantly orchestration.  So that means you can orchestrate all of your cloud using one control plane.
And lastly, since security and especially this class of threats called APT is so top of mind for each of us, we’re introducing an advanced threat analytics solution which will make it possible for every organization to analyze behaviorally all of the authentication logs, all of the things that are happening inside Active Directory, to detect any of these advanced persistent threats, any of the anomalous logins, and to be able to take action as an organization to isolate them and protect ourselves.
So these are some of the breakthrough announcements that you’re going to get, much more information throughout this conference and in this keynote.
But really all of this technology is about business transformation.  And when I think about the business transformation, it’s best to talk about it in terms of customer stories.
The first one I wanted to share with you is Delphi.  I in fact distinctly remember talking to the CIO of Delphi just before they launched the service, but Delphi has been a very successful company building devices for the aftermarket in the automotive industry, in the consumer automotive industry.
But now you can think of them as a consumer services company, consumer SaaS company.  They have effectively built a connected car service.  This service of theirs allows every smartphone to become an auto key.  They also have the ability to notify you as a customer of their devices if one of your teenagers happens to be driving your car and they’re not exactly driving the way you want them to be driving.  You’ll get to know of it.  You also get notified just before your spouse is about to come home and you want to put the finishing touches on your dinner.    So think about all the kinds of things that a consumer company would do.
See, that is the kind of innovation that every business is now doing.  And that’s possible because of some of the cloud technology, some of the machine learning technologies, some of the analytics technologies.  But ultimately, it is about the automotive industry changing.
But let’s take a look at another customer story, Fujitsu.  Of course, Fujitsu is a storied name in technology, known for supercomputers, but what’s fascinated me about their transformation is what they’re doing in IoT.
They picked perhaps one of the oldest industries in the world, agriculture, and said, how do we transform it.  And, in fact, it’s a fascinating story.  They took an old factory of theirs, they took the clean room in that factory, and used that to grow lettuce, a low-potassium lettuce, which is very important for any diabetic patient.
And the way they did it was fundamentally by creating a controlled environment, a feedback loop.  So it’s no longer just agriculture, it is, in fact, a system which is controlled by an Internet of Things.  So they’re taking that entire system and now making it a software product for agriculture.
So think about it, here’s a tech company that is not only transforming themselves but they’re transforming other industries through what they’re doing in terms of creating software solutions.  And again the cloud, data, analytics, machine learning, are very much part of what they’re doing.
And another industry which is real fun to talk about is sports.  In fact, there isn’t another industry that is being so fundamentally being transformed with data and digital technology like sports.
Real Madrid is an amazing brand and everybody knows about them.  They have 450 million fans worldwide.
And so I wanted to share this story with you, but I wanted to do that by introducing the CEO of Real Madrid, Jose Angel, to come up onstage and share his thoughts.  Jose?  
Thank you so much for being here.
So Jose, of course, Real Madrid is such a storied brand, an amazing sports team.  Why don’t you tell us a little bit about your organization and your journey?
 OK.  First of all, it’s great to be here in Chicago, which is a city with a very, very strong sports heritage.
We have a similar heritage at Real Madrid.  But Real Madrid is not only about sports success, it is also very unique in its social mobile.  It’s a members’ club owned by 90,000 people who just want to promote football through a set of values:  excellence, endurance, respect to the open end, and a culture of sacrifice and aspiration to victory.
And yes, this personality has brought to the club many trophies.  The club was named as the best soccer team, soccer club of the 20th century.
We have won 116 official trophies in 113 years of history, and just last season we won our 10th Champions League as the best team in Europe.
  That’s amazing.  How has digital technology played a role?  I know you’re transforming Real Madrid.  Can you tell us a little bit about that?
  Well, yes, we have three, basically three major areas of focus when we talk about technology, how technology is transforming our business.
The first one is fan engagement.  We just want to make sure that we can connect with the fans wherever they are.  For this purpose we have created Real Madrid app, an application for mobile devices that is going to play a key role to enrich the connection with our fans.
  So this is the 450 million fans, or even a billion fans on the game day?
 Yes, exactly.  The point is to provide them unique experiences and content that can also reposition their relationship with them.
Technology is helping us also to improve business operations in general.  In this sense we just want to focus and to make sure that we are using insight from our fan engagement and connection with our key business partners, and this is to help driving the business.
And finally, we are equipping our team players with technologies such as Microsoft Surface and using big data analysis to help driving the business.
  That’s amazing.  That’s amazing.  It’s fan engagement, your own operations with your partners, as well as player analytics, all coming together as one digital system.  You’re like a software company now.
  Well, yes, basically Microsoft is helping us transform our entire club and our business consequently in a digital world.  In the end, all the effort we are making is for this.
The industry of sports, like every industry, is being transformed by technology.  And it will be crucial to our ongoing success on the pitch and around the world as we get more engagement with our fans online today and in every other way.
The Real Madrid app that we are announcing today and that will be available on May 19th is just another step on that journey, both as a way to engage more deeply with our fans, and also as a way to drive business results as we get more insight into those fans.
But above everything, it is the old dream of bringing together a community of millions and millions of people who share a common passion and a common love for our club, which is Real Madrid.
  Thank you so much for coming, and good luck next week.
 Thank you very much.
  Thank you.  Thanks a lot.  
Real Madrid has a very important game in the Champions League next week, and so good luck to Jose and the team.
It’s not just sports or automotive, every industry is going through this.  If there has been anything for me in the last year that’s been the greatest source of energy for what Microsoft stands for, what we need to drive, it’s been these transformation stories.  It could be every company from Virginia Tech and how drug discovery is changing, or what’s Carnegie Mellon doing with what they’re doing across IoT in terms of energy and building, and you know, the buildings on the campus, what Rockwell Automation is doing in energy.
So industry after industry is being transformed as we speak, and that’s the real opportunity for us collectively.  This is perhaps more so than ever in our history where technology is not just adding capability but it’s changing business models.
So I wanted to close out by orienting you to the rest of the keynotes.  You’re going to hear from Joe Belfiore next when he’s going to come out and talk about more personal computing and how Windows 10 is going to usher in the new era of more personal computing.
And then Gurdeep Singh Pall will come up and talk about how we are reinventing productivity and business process, and in fact the interlock between what we are doing in Windows 10, Office 365, Dynamics, how do they come together to transform the very nature of work.
And lastly, Brad Anderson will come and talk about how you can manage, secure all of the productivity services and the device experiences inside of your organization, as well as the back-end infrastructure, the data infrastructure that spans cloud.
These are three interlocking ambitions and technology agendas for us, and that’s what we’re going to focus on.
But the most important thing for me is that this is only going to happen as this community of IT professionals brings it together to transform your businesses.
So thank you very, very much for being at Ignite and have a great keynote and the rest of Ignite.  Thank you.  
Remarks by Nick Parker, Corporate Vice President, OEM Division; Tony Prophet, Corporate Vice President, Windows and Search Marketing; and Roanne Sones, General Manager, Operating Systems Group, on June 3, 2015. 
  Please welcome Corporate Vice President of OEM Division, Nick Parker.  
  Thank you.  Thank you.  Well, hello and welcome to Computex.  Thank you, everyone, for being here.
We live in a mobile-first, cloud-first world, and that’s how we see the context of the world we live in.  And it’s that world where we live and it’s actually the mobility of us, the user, that we consider the core of our mobile dream and our mobile aspiration.
As we move around in our lives, we may pass many devices every single day, and it’s about taking our information and our data with us and connecting to the things that matter to us most from the cloud that really inform our vision.
And Microsoft’s mission in that world context is to empower every person and every organization in the world to achieve more.
And so with that mission in mind we see three clear ambitions.  And you can almost think of these as platforms.  Building the intelligent cloud, how do we bring the power of the cloud and its intelligence to new capabilities in that mobile-first, cloud-first world?
Reinventing productivity and business process, whether it’s the productivity of me on my way to work looking after my children on the way to school, or whether it’s the productivity of whole organizations or nations, and how do we change business process to enable it to seize new opportunities because of the capabilities of our technology?
And then finally, creating more personal computing, how are our experiences immersive, how do they work how we live rather than we have to force ourselves to live how the technology works?  And this is the third of our ambitions and really our core platform powered by Windows.
The intelligent cloud, our first ambition, as you saw as part of our mission, in the sense of us as device manufacturers, us as the hardware ecosystem, is about bringing the power of these Internet of Things devices running Windows and connecting them with the power of Azure, our cloud.
Whether it’s an ATM and the ability for Azure and machine learning to provide predictive maintenance or better servicing or real-time capabilities to those ATMs, whether it’s a gas pump, whether it’s a fluid monitoring sensor, or it could be a kiosk with incredible capability, or it could be a medical device, or even a wearable in the consumer sense of the word, but it’s bringing these Windows IoT devices running one of our Windows operating systems that scales all the way down to the sensors, powered by incredible services and capabilities delivered by the cloud, whether it’s machine learning or intelligent systems.
And I’ll give you an example of one, and, in fact I’m very pleased to announce with one of our incredible partners, Toshiba, today for the first time the Toshiba and Microsoft partnership around the Internet of Things.  And this is, in fact, the first solution we’re launching, which is the Transportation and Logistics Monitoring Solution from Toshiba.
This environmental data logging device is a very small device, and I’ll demonstrate it later, with a battery life up to six months that can be in a very hardened, harsh environment that can track data logistics and give full power and capability, coupled with the Azure services, to someone in a large supply chain, whether it’s a high value cargo or whether it’s monitoring a fleet of containers across the world or the seas.  It’s an incredible solution that’s ready for customers to buy and trial now, built on Windows as an operating system in that device, as well as leveraging the power of Azure, and all of that rich unique capability that Toshiba brings both the hardware as well as the business solution.
The second example I would like to share with you today is something I’d like to talk about from Crestron.  And this is more kind of in the consumer world, and it really starts to highlight the ambition of the intelligent cloud where we have Windows running on the Crestron hub, and it’s a home hub that enables smart home management.  We have full Windows running on that hub that enables that hub to connect to all of the various devices in your home and provide analytics and services using the My Crestron Cloud and Microsoft Azure Unit to bring all those sensors, all of the data together through hubs and gateways, and then provide a Web front-end, either to a user or to a service provider looking after that system.
So two very real examples of two incredible partnerships, showing how we think about that in terms of the intelligent cloud and the opportunity it can deliver to you, the hardware ecosystem.
I’d like to really just cover very quickly this last slide and, in fact, last month we made a series of announcements on our Azure IoT partnerships here in Taipei.  And this is again recognizing these partners, and these are a new set of partners who are building these IoT solutions with us.  And so thank you again for their engagement, and you’ll see more and more from us as we take these packaged solutions with deep hardware capability running Windows, connected to individual device capabilities or solution capabilities from ISVs or partners to Azure to market in the coming months.
The second of our ambitions is reinventing productivity and business process to help anybody make the most of any moment.
And you can clearly see here if we kind of look at the focus areas within that mission, within that ambition the areas where there’s immediate hardware opportunity.  And these are the three core platforms that Microsoft will go to market with and build solutions with you.
Obviously, mobile we clearly understand has been a huge growth area for all of us together, but as we start thinking about social productivity and what are the device, what are the hardware extensions to social productivity?  Is it the capability to do Skype on any device anywhere you want?  Is it voice over IP?
What are the various capabilities that we will extend our hardware?  Is it hardware that changes from being in a productive type mode to being in a casual tablet mode, or two facing cameras doing conference calls casually in a coffee shop, moving into doing very rich business dialogue in a multiperson conference room?  These are the kinds of hardware extensions that you’ll start to see built into our product.
Or maybe it’s just how we use ink and touch and gesture on our devices, and what are the hardware extensions and capabilities that will leverage the power of the investments that we make in our platforms?
And so the core software assets that make that up, clearly Office is right at the center.  But then as you think about Skype or OneDrive and OneNote you really start to see how we bring that together.
Now, Office, whether it’s touch Office or the modern Office product, you know, clearly has a capability and clearly enables you to monetize your investments in touch and tablets and two-in-ones and detachables, as well as all-in-ones.  But as you start to really experience Windows 10 and you see the touching and the typing and these two working together you can really see the value that Office brings across devices and extensions to the hardware.
As much it is a capability for ink, OneNote, note-taking, the ability to pick up your stylus and click the button and you start writing immediately, as that device recognizes you want to take casual notes.
These are the kinds of extensions and capabilities we’re building into these software platforms into reinventing productivity that provide very discrete, very tangible, unique hardware business opportunity for us together.
And the final of the three ambitions that I want to discuss, which is really part of the main focus for us today, is create more personal computing and Windows 10, how Windows and the operating system becomes part of our everyday life, how it’s immersive, how it simulates so much more of the analog-digital interface, how I want to live my life and how we as the hardware ecosystem and industry need to build our devices and inspire unique experiences that enable people to do more and be more in their lives.
There are three things that are different about Windows 10 that have been different than any time I’ve stood up here before you in the last six or seven years, but also in our 40-year history.
The first is that we have a single application platform experience and store across all of our devices.  So whether it’s an IoT device, a phone, a phablet, a tablet, a PC, an all-in-one, an Xbox or a large format device such as a large whiteboard, we have a single universal application platform, giving predictability to developers, giving the ability to target unique applications and experiences for our customers that work across all devices, having a single target that everyone, both for you as a hardware manufacturer or you as an independent hardware vendor or a silicon provider, as well as just enabling our customers to have a level of capability that they can expect to rely on, with a single new experience across all of the devices in your life, and of course a single store within which to buy what our customers want at the time and place they need it, without having to think across different platforms or think across different capabilities.
The second is ongoing operating system updates.  This is huge.  This is rapidly becoming known as the evergreen operating system, the operating system that through its lifecycle continues to provide value.  You don’t have that lifecycle where we’re all waiting multiple months, even years for all the new value.  This will continue to bring new capabilities and new agility to our operating system, to Windows during its life, and during the life of the device rather than that sort of momentous change that we’ve gone with the previous versions.
And finally, we made a very significant decision to invest in the free upgrade.
These are three very different things about Windows 10 and our investment in the ecosystem.
Now, clearly we’ve done that to stimulate demand firstly within that 1.5 billion people who are using Windows today so they can try Windows 10 and see the experiences they can get on new hardware, as well as bring everyone to the new application platform so we generate huge demand in the developer ecosystem for a single targeted platform where they can build applications and generate demand, because obviously we know the greatest applications bring user demand to our platform and to our devices.
And so let me tell you some of the things that we’ve been hearing in terms of feedback from the ecosystem, from yourselves and from our customers that give me great confidence and, in fact give the market and us great confidence that we’re on the right path with Windows 10 and the device business opportunity that we all face and that we’re all looking straight down that last few weeks before we launch this operating system.
Six hundred million of those PCs of that 1.5 billion installed base of Windows users are over four years old.  We know what those PCs are like over four years old.  That is real opportunity for us to build solid business and solid new growth for us.
Four million Windows Insiders, that’s people trying Windows 10, pushing hard and giving us feedback.
And clearly lots of new designs in the pipeline, and many new devices already running Windows 10, ready for launch.
And the press have given us phenomenal feedback, too.  You know, I’m so proud of what we’ve done as an ecosystem when the press are pushing on you and they’re pushing on us, tell us more about it, tell us what are the things that are inspiring people, tell us what’s cool and different about Windows 10.  And we’ve just got such great feedback.
So without any further ado, I would like to introduce you to Tony and Windows.  Thank you.
  Please welcome Tony Prophet.  
  From needing Windows to choosing Windows to loving Windows.
Good afternoon, everyone.  Hey, it is great to be with you all here at Computex, and it’s great to see so many old friends.  We are thrilled to be here with all of you, our incredible ecosystem partners.  Hey, this is we’re at the dawn of a great time in the history of Windows, because Windows 10 is coming, and it’s going to be amazing.
Now, Nick talked earlier about the Microsoft vision, to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more.
Now, we’re pursuing this mission through three bold ambitions:  first, reinventing productivity and business process; second, building the intelligent cloud; and third, creating more personal computing, where interacting with technology should be as natural as interacting with a person, where voice, pen, ink, gesture, gaze all help you achieve more in a way that’s additive, natural, and intuitive.
And Windows 10 will be the embodiment of more personal computing.  Before we wrote a single line of code, we imagined the world that we wanted to create, and we distilled it down to two images, images to guide us and to inspire us.
First, we envisioned the workplace, a workplace where experiences move seamlessly across devices, scaled for each but familiar to all, where it’s easy to put down one device and pick up the same experience on another device, effortlessly, where apps aren’t constrained by the screen size or the input modality or the touch modality of the device that they’re on, a workplace where large screen collaboration experiences are a direct extension of your business processes, your business processes for communication, for calendaring, and for file sharing, where businesses can trust that their data is secure and protected as the data moves between devices and apps, as it moves between the cloud and on-premises.
And then we envisioned a home, a home where the PC, tablets, phones, interoperate seamlessly with gaming consoles and TVs, a home where the lines between the digital and the analog world are blurred and eventually erased, a home where the dream of holographic computing becomes reality.
Our Windows 10 journey has been guided and inspired by these images, and the heart of our strategy is creating a single converged platform for all of these experiences, one platform, one platform from the headless IoT device to phones to tablets to PCs to the 84-inch Surface Hub, and beyond to the world of holograms, one platform, one kernel, one device driver model, one development model, one store, one deployment and management approach, one platform powered by Windows Universal Apps, Windows Universal Apps with a guaranteed core API layer common across all devices, write an app once and run it across all Windows 10 devices, with a UI seamlessly scaling across the screen sizes and across the input modalities, buy an app once and use it on up to 10 Windows 10 devices.
And we’ve got some spectacular new experiences coming to Windows 10.  We’re working together with a lot of great partners to embrace the new Windows Universal Platform.  We’re delighted to have companies like Tencent, Disney, Netflix, Line and so many more working with us building amazing Windows 10 applications.  We’re going to help these partners do things that can only be done on Windows 10.
Now, we’re confident that building native Universal Windows apps is the best way to deliver a really unique, a really compelling experience that scales across device sizes.  But we’re also enabling developers to reuse code to create Windows apps, the apps that can call native Windows APIs and get access to features like store search discoverability, Live Tiles, notification, locations, in-app purchases, even Cortana, and get broad access to the Windows 10 installed base as it grows through our store.
And we’re doing this through bridges, bridges to the Universal Windows Platform.
The first bridge brings website technology over apps.  This is available today in a public SDK build.  For websites the intent is simple:  Take advantage of native Windows APIs opportunistically from your website, distributed through our store, and invoke the website as an app.
Second, there are literally millions of programs out there that leverage longstanding Windows technologies like Win32, .NET.  We’re bringing technology that allows existing Windows applications to be distributed through the store, giving them access to the store promise and generally allowing them to reuse code.  Now, this bridge is also coming soon.
Third, we’re working to help developers reuse code from Android apps.  This bridge is also coming soon, and for now we want to be clear, apps developed in this way will only work on Windows 10 mobile.
And finally, tools are coming to help reuse code from iOS apps to create Windows apps.
So what should be clear is that we intend to make it much, much easier to reuse code, a broad range of code, and bring that content to the Windows 10 platform, and distribute it through the Windows Store, one store with apps, games, music, movies, TV shows, and soon desktop software and much more.
We’re supporting the widest array of payment instruments, of course credit cards, but PayPal, Alipay, Bitcoin, and importantly and we think in a differentiated way is mobile operator billing, including soon PC mobile operator billing without a SIM card.  We’ve got more than 90 mobile operators signed up in more than 50 locations around the world.  We’re also going to offer a store specifically for business.
Now, our goal in the midterm is a simple one, getting 1 billion users highly engaged on the Windows 10 platform, over the midterm.  So think about three years.
A critical first step is upgrading our installed base.
Today, there’s about 1.5 billion Windows devices operating around the world.  Now, some are running XP, a few run Vista, a lot of them are on 7, a growing number on Windows 8 and 8.1.
And our strategy is simple:  upgrade as many as possible of these devices through a free upgrade to Windows 10.  The offer is going to be open for one year, and the upgrade is free for the serviceable life of the device.
Eligible devices include those running genuine, I underline genuine, versions of Windows 7 SP1 and Windows 8.1 update and Windows Phone 8.1.
So this Monday, Monday of this week we began accepting reservations for the free upgrade. Around the world, a new Windows icon began appearing in system trays of tens of millions of PCs, the Get Windows app.  And this app will make it really easy to take advantage of this limited time offer to reserve your free upgrade to Windows 10.
Clicking on the Windows icon or the notification will open the Get Windows 10 application, launching the app.  The app is a great way to learn more about Windows 10.  It’s a great way, has great tools to check the compatibility of your machine with Windows 10, and it’s an easy way to reserve your free upgrade.
If you don’t see the app, go to Windows.com and click on Reserve Upgrade. You’ll be taken to the upgrade page, which will explain how to discover and activate the app.
Alternately, it will explain why the app might not be present, for example, the version not being eligible like XP or the machine is domain joined, or the device doesn’t have a genuine — we cannot detect a genuine Windows operating system.  So this reservation process was engineered for our install base of genuine machines.
Now, what about the machines that are currently being sold today?  We’re working super hard with our partners — that’s you, all of you — to ensure that machines being sold today will upgrade smoothly to Windows 10, so consumers can buy one and get 10 free.
And all of this is in anticipation of the big day, and that day is July 29th, 2015, the dawn of Windows 10 around the world.
On that day those who reserve Windows 10 will begin getting their free upgrades.  New 8.1 devices will have access out of the box to the upgrade.  New devices preinstalled with Windows 10 will begin being sold.
So here’s a short video to remind you of some of the incredible, amazing features of Windows 10.
  So together we are going to build amazing new devices that are going to empower people to create, discover, learn, share and play in incredible new ways.
We’re building Windows 10 to deliver on four consumer promises, first, deliver on the fundamentals, what people expect out of a powerful operating system, like performance, compatibility, of course security and reliability.
Second, making Windows 10 feel tailored to you, personalized, delivering the most personal and natural experiences like Cortana, which introduces natural language interaction to a broad range of devices, from the phone all the way up to the PC, including features like contextual search and reminders and cool things like proactive suggestions based on your needs, the context, or anticipating your intent.
Third, lighting up an amazing range of devices, embracing all the devices that people have, from the technologies like Continuum, which can sense whether you’re in a mouse and keyboard input mode or a touch-first input mode, and adjust the UI accordingly.
It’s also why we’re improving things like the gaming technology performance, bringing things like DX12 and then bringing Xbox content and Xbox features to the PC, enabling gameplay streaming and Xbox Live services on the PC.
And finally, Windows 10 promises to give users new tools to simply be more productive, like our new browser, Microsoft Edge, designed for the modern Web, with great features like writing directly on a Web page, annotating or typing on a Web page, and being able to share those annotations, or having Cortana right there whenever you need her.
For businesses we’re investing in these four promises, first, protecting businesses against modern security threats, with features like Device Guard to protect against malware, and Enterprise Data Protection that protects your data not just when it’s on the device but when it travels in or outside of the protected domain, as well as breaking new ground in multifactor authentication and bringing features like Windows Hello to help eliminate the need for passwords.
Second, we’re enabling businesses to manage continuous innovation.  We’re calling this Windows as a Service.  And the intent is to keep all of your devices up to date with the latest features and the latest security fixes.
Third, it’s all about reinventing productivity, starting from the gold standard, and that’s Office.
And finally, we’re going to light up these innovations on an unprecedented portfolio of devices, unmatched in the industry.  You’re going to hear a lot more about that from Nick in the time coming ahead of me.
So our priorities are clear:  We are going to usher in the era of more personal computing.  We’re going to bring one platform across our entire device family.  And our priority is to get 1 billion people highly engaged on the Windows 10 platform over three years.
So I hope you agree, we’re on an incredible journey with Windows 10, and we’re thrilled that you’re our partners in this journey.
Now, I’d like to invite Roanne Sones, she’s a general manager on our engineering team, to show you some of the amazing, exciting features of Windows 10 in action.  Roanne, please join us.  
  Hi, everybody.  My name is Roanne Sones.  I’m part of the Windows engineering team.  And I’m specifically responsible for managing our partner and customer ecosystem and input into the Windows 10 product.
I’ve been on this journey with many of you since the start of Windows 7, carrying that on into Windows 8, into Windows 8.1 update, and now ultimately with Windows 10.
It’s something that I’m very excited about.  I’m bullish about what we’ve done together with Windows 10.  I’m bullish about the fact that no customer experiences Windows 10 on their own.  It’s lit up by the power of this room and the innovation that you’re putting into your products.
And I’m excited to actually spend a little bit of time demoing our Windows 10 release.
So I’m going to go ahead and get started here.  I’m going to just get started on this device right here.  As you can see, what we’re looking at actually is the Windows 10 desktop.
Now, this should hopefully look really, really familiar.  Lots of our customers are on Windows 7.  We learned, potentially a hard way in Windows 8, the importance of familiarity and keeping a number of concepts familiar to people as they move through the journey of their Windows operating system.
So let’s go ahead and look at this.  You can see here I’ve got my familiar desktop.  My recycle bin is where it should be.  You’ve got your system tray items over here.  I can pin a number of things to my taskbar.  I can right click.  I can have jump list support, you know, something that a number of Windows 7 customers use.  I can unpin this program from the taskbar and really personalize it and customize it.
And probably most importantly, you know, the thing that jumps out the most to everybody here is the addition of the Start button and a Start Menu back to Windows 10. I’ve actually been using Windows 10 for so long that I don’t actually even remember a world in Windows 8 where I no longer have a Start Menu.
So I’m excited when you go ahead and you click the Start Menu here, you can see here again continuing what’s familiar.
You can look here and see your most used items.
We’ve got a number of experiences here that we dock and are really quick access and available to you.  Power is one that stands out to me.  This is something that again in a customer’s journey from Windows 7 to Windows 8 all of a sudden power was kind of buried behind three clicks in the charms bar.  So we listened to our customers.  We’re incorporating that into the development of Windows 10, and we’re really thinking about how that customer journeys through the product to have something that is familiar.
Now, one of the stats that surprises me and I think will surprise a number of folks in this room here today is the most satisfied customer that we have for Windows is actually a Windows 8.1 customer with touch.  That to me tells me that there’s a number of concepts we introduced in Windows 8 that we want to bring forward in a familiar and fresh way for our customers.
We started that by bringing together what is the Windows 7 Start Menu and bringing in Live Tiles, so you can go here and see a set of Live Tiles.  They’re at-a-glance information.  You don’t have to open the application, and you can instantly see and get information at your fingertips.
What’s great about this here is you’re actually seeing a mashup.  There’s a set of Win32 applications here and there’s a set of new Universal Windows Applications that are all mixed in together.
One of the other lessons that we’ve really learned through this journey of developing the operating system is the importance of Microsoft first-party applications actually taking advantage of the operating system.
So what’s exciting about this, you can see here as part of this experience as I scroll up, you can see here I’ve got my traditional Win32 applications, but what’s great about this is we’re also investing in a set of Universal Windows Applications with Office that are going to be touch-first, that are going to be optimized for a more mobile experience, touch-first experience, and scale great down into not just your PC experiences but into your two-in-ones and into your tablets.
That really does kind of help land I think the message that Tony was talking about in terms of our Universal Windows Applications.  These are applications that a developer writes once, scales across all of their devices.  It’s one store.  You submit it once and it literally scales to everything.  That flywheel, that motion, that efficiency for a developer, that’s something that only Windows has to offer, and that we’re excited to see the developer flywheel get started.
So maybe what I’ll go ahead and do here is there’s a set of Universal Windows Applications that come preinstalled and for free as part of Windows.  You can see a few of them here today.  I’m going to go ahead and click on maps.
You’ll see that maps, as you would expect, it loads full screen.  I’ll go ahead and I’m just going to click on our location, so you can see exactly where we are here in the TICC.  This is something that is as expected.  As a Windows 8 customer they gave us feedback, it loaded full screen, but what you can now see is that we’ve kept the taskbar.  There was a challenging moment when customers are transitioning from Windows 7 to Windows 8 where all of a sudden they felt like they lost their controls, they lost their way on how to navigate.  It no longer kind of felt familiar.  So we’re making sure that we continue some of that heritage from Windows 7 forward into this experience.
What’s also great, I’m just going to go ahead here and click on the left-hand side, you’ll see favorites, Din Tai Fung.  So this is sort of interesting.  So Din Tai Fung is actually a restaurant that we have in Bellevue, Washington, in the USA.  It’s renowned for having epic lines.  It’s a hugely, hugely popular restaurant.  And it was actually the home of Din Tai Fung here in Taipei.
And so when I was asking my friends, you know, ultimately where should I go, what restaurant recommendations should I have for my Computex 2015 visit, they recommended to me that I should go to the original Din Tai Fung.
What’s interesting about that is I actually had that favorite on my phone.  I saved that favorite on my phone, and now here I am using my PC, and because of the synching that we have with the Universal Application Platform up to the cloud, that’s now accessible and available to me here on my PC, automatically happened, everything done in the background.
Another interesting thing here that we’ve done with our Universal Windows Applications is we’ve made them a lot more like your traditional Win32 apps.  So I’m going to go ahead and drag to app bar, and now all of a sudden you can see that it’s windowed.  Now there’s really not that big of a difference in terms of how a customer would interact with a Universal Windows App versus a Win32 app.  You see that it’s also pinned down here on my lower taskbar, so it really is interactive and familiar to those Windows 7 customers.
I’m going to go ahead and snap the app here on the left-hand side.  What’s great about this is looking at some of the resizing that we can do here as I go ahead and narrow this application up.  You can see here that this is a lot more like a traditional phone view and phone application.  I’ve got a phone here right now with the exact same Universal Windows App, again one app that the developer put in the store that I’ve got available here both on a phone and on my PC.  And you can see that the view is exactly the same on what I’m seeing on my PC and what I’m seeing on my phone.
What’s interesting about that is the developer just has to submit one set of assets and Windows takes on all the work to dynamically scale that application based off of the screen resolution and the screen size that you’re actually using on those specific devices.
So probably what I’ll do next is most folks don’t actually use their PC with only one app open.  So let me just go ahead and open a few other applications.
I’m going to open our insider hub here, and I’m going to go ahead and I’m going to open File Explorer, and let’s go ahead and open documents.
What’s interesting to me is I actually never shut down my PC anymore.  I just keep adding apps and apps and apps.  I’ve got literally tens, if not potentially at times hundreds, of things open on my desktop.  Alt-tab is my friend.  You know, I use alt-tab all the time to navigate between the different files and folders that I have available.
The telemetry data that we actually had in terms of how customers, not Roannes of the world, are using Windows is that only 6 percent of customers actually knew about the alt-tab shortcut.  That is just astounding to me when I think about the efficiency that it makes for me and how I’m using my device, and the inefficiency that we now have in Windows where customers are spending lots of time minimizing, maximizing in order to navigate the different applications that they would have open on their PC.
So what we’ve added in Windows 10 is this Task View.  You go ahead and click on the Task View button on your Taskbar you can instantly see a new view where we visually describe all of the applications that a user has open on their device.  Single click you can go in and instantly access and bring an application to the forefront of focus for that specific activity that you’re completing.
Now I’m actually going to stay here on the Insider Hub.  I think this is a pretty interesting app.  And I’ll actually just take a minute to talk about that, the Windows Insiders.  So if I think about my personal journey within the Windows group, from Windows 7, Windows 8 and into 8.1 and now Windows 10, there’s two things that stand out to me which are pretty starkly different in terms of the development approach that we’ve been taking for Windows 10.  And that’s the creation of our Windows Insider Program, and it’s also the creation of our approach to flighting in-development builds of Windows.  We are being more transparent and more collaborative than ever before in how Windows 10 is being developed.
We have over 4 million Windows Insiders that are actually helping us get prerelease builds.  They’re testing out those builds.  They’re making feature recommendations on what they want to see changed.  And this is all happening while we’re actually in development.
I felt previously you’d develop it and keep your fingers crossed that you had the right customer input in mind, release it to the world, and then you’d kind of wait and see.  Now they can be involved, those customers can actually be involved while we’re developing the product.  Think about the confidence that the Redmond view is actually a view that the rest of the world is looking for in how they use Windows on devices.
So let’s go ahead and look at this specific Insider Hub app.  This app is actually one of the ways, and hopefully there’s a lot of Insiders in here, I can’t quite see all the hands in the air, but the Insider Hub app is one of the ways that we actually communicate to our Windows Insiders.  You can see here we’ve got some Quests.  You can see some interesting things here in terms of announcements.  We highlight a number of folks within Windows who are actually helping us and part of the engineering team.  You can see alerts and specific things that would be available as part of the product.  And then you can see your insider profile.
This is actually a demo account, because I look at this and I see that it says that I’ve provided zero Windows feedback, and zero up votes, and I have to attest that I’m a much better Windows employee than what my demo test account says here.
So let’s go ahead and look at the quest.  I talked a little bit about Task View as a way of actually bringing that alt-tab functionality to the masses for people who aren’t comfortable and familiar with keyboard shortcuts.  I’m actually going to go ahead and click in the Snap Quest.  Quests are things or guidance we give to our Insiders to help direct them to new things that we’ve put into each one of the subsequent builds.  And so in particular I want to talk a little bit about the Snap feature, because this is another way that customers really resonated in Windows 7 and Windows 8 in terms of how they actually accessed and interact with applications.
So Snap is a feature where you can put windows side-by-side.  You’ll see here I’m full screen.  It tells me to open a few windows.  I’m reading kind of steps here as a Windows Insider would.  We’ve already completed that.  So let’s go ahead and Snap the window by selecting it.  I’m going to take it from the top of the app bar, snap it to the left-hand side, and you’ll see that Windows 10 automatically suggests, because we can tell that you’re trying to compare two applications side-by-side, to say what is it that you want of the applications you have open you want to compare to.
I’m going to go ahead and click documents.  Now what’s interesting here is I actually think it’s common to have two versions of File Explorer open.  So I’m going to go ahead and go to my File Explorer view here.  I’m going to dock this to the corner this time.  You’ll see it snap in the lower right-hand quadrant.  So we have quadrant support.  This is an innovation in addition to what we started in Windows 8.  I’m going to go ahead and click document.  So now you can see it’s super easy to essentially drag and drop and move files back and forth between my two file folder views.  So this kind of gives you a snapshot, I think, in terms of just how to interact with your applications.
Now, to me, the Windows Insider Program only really works if we actually have proof points of things that we’ve done differently, feature changes that we’ve made as a result of their input.  So I want to actually spend a little bit of time going back to Task View here, and I’ll talk specifically about some of the changes that we’ve made in our implementation based off of the customer feedback we’ve been getting throughout the development.
You’ll see here, in addition to seeing the applications I have available, you also have a view of two desktops.  So I’m going to go ahead and click my second desktop.  What’s interesting here is this is actually my personal desktop.  At Microsoft, your work device is kind of your personal device.  You take it home with you every night.  It’s something I actually use in the evenings as I’m multitasking between work and personal.
And I always used to have those awkward moments, where I’d bring the device back in, and take that back in to work with me the next morning.  My day commonly starts with a meeting, as I’m sure many of yours do as well.  I’d project up, and then all of a sudden the history of whatever it was I happened to be doing yesterday evening at my home was on display for everybody in my meeting to see.
And so what I’ve actually got here, and what I’ve actually done is here is to separate that out now in Windows 10.  I can have my personal view.  So whether I’ve got my photos of my kids, whether I’ve got games that I’m actually searching for them, it’s a richer way of basically separating out what I’ve specifically done here versus what I can do on my work desktop.  Now that’s how I’ve chosen to work with multiple desktops, but I’m sure that customers are all going to basically create their own way.
So I want to go back specifically to what we’ve — I want to go back to my first desktop here and talk a little bit about some of the feedback that the Windows Insiders have asked us about.  They gave us feedback that they wanted to be able to easily navigate between desktops.  And so what they specifically talked about was let’s go ahead and I want to be able to take an application that I’ve got here, I want to be able to drop it in a desktop, I can go back to my desktop here and now you can instantly see that the File Explorer has now navigated from my first desktop into my second desktop.
They also gave us feedback that they wanted to be able to instantly create a brand new third desktop.  So I’m going to go ahead and click File Explorer here, go into the new desktop, drag and drop and you’ll see here that I now instantly have created a brand new third desktop by just dragging and dropping my files.  I’m going to go to my keyboard here, control-Windows-arrow, and you’ll see that we can now quickly and easily navigate across the various desktops that you would have open and available.
So one of the interesting things that I mentioned in terms of the volume of Insiders I’ve had with 4 million people is our ability to actually run experiments.  So one of the interesting things that we did was we weren’t quite sure how to think about the Taskbar, should the Taskbar show you all the applications that you have available across all of your desktops, should it really be that global view, or should your Taskbar really be specific to a specific desktop that you’re using?
And so what we actually did was we ran an A/B test.  We literally created two builds.  We sent one build out to half of the Insiders where the Taskbar was global.  We sent another build out to the other half of the insiders where we said the Taskbar was local.  And then we actually understood telemetry on how they were using it.  We surveyed them, asked them for their feedback.  We asked them how satisfied they were with the experience.  And then we added up all of that feedback to then inform right when we were developing the feature what decision we should make.  And it was actually interesting.  It was resoundingly strong to call out specifically the way people wanted Taskbar to interact was within your local desktop and not show everything that was globally relevant.
We then took that feedback; we also applied it to alt-tab.  So when you are alt-tabbing that’s now a localized view within that desktop as opposed to the breadth of what you have available across all of your desktops.  So that’s just a snapshot in my mind of a few of the things that we’ve done based off of Insider feedback and a few of the things that we’ve done to really take familiar experiences, bring them forward into Windows 10 and freshen them up in new ways.
I kind of go back to the quote that we actually heard Satya say where he said we need to take customers from needing Windows, to choosing Windows, to loving Windows.  I think about the things that I’ve really kind of highlighted and shown here.  To me that’s about the transition from needing Windows to choosing Windows.  I think people get excited.  They see this they get excited about Windows 10.  They want to use Windows 10.  The reality, though, is that going from choosing Windows to loving Windows needs to be something more.  It needs to be something more personal.
I think about when I use the love word, both in my personal life as well as around devices, it needs to be something that gets me really energized, really excited.  I believe our strategy and how we are working with you to enable that is through more personal computing.  It’s empowering people in new and different ways to actually interact with their devices and basically really pushing the technology in ways that they hadn’t even envisioned and thought that was possible.  So it’s the surprise moments that really get people excited and energized and in love with the devices and wanting to tell their friends and family to go out and buy the latest and greatest.
So where I wanted to spend my time for the second half of talking about some of the highlights that we’ll do for Windows 10 is talking through some of those places where I think we’re really pushing the initial boundaries on making computing more personal.  So I’m going to start here.  I’m going to move to a two-in-one device.  You can see here that it’s set up in a traditional desktop environment.  I’ve got multiple windows open.  It’s a more high-precision interaction here in terms of mouse and keyboard input.
What I’m going to go ahead and do is show how you can through Continuum transition this into a tablet experience.  So let’s go ahead, I’m going to open the device here, flip this back, and you can see here now — essentially you’ll see a toast happening in the lower right-hand corner where I like to go into tablet mode, I’m going to click yes and you’ll see a couple of things that have just happened when that took place.
First off, Maps went full screen.  Personally I love that.  A map to me is something that I want to interact with touch on.  I want to be able to zoom in.  It’s a much more natural way for me to interact with a map in a touch-first way.  The other thing that scaled is the start menu.  So I can click the start button, you can see here that my start menu is now gone forward into a full touch mode, we’re kind of embracing what was great about the Windows 8.1 experience where our highest satisfied customers were experiencing with touch.
Then the other thing that’s interesting is basically at your fingertips we really thought about our edge gestures.  We introduced the charm, which was a swipe in from the right- hand side in Windows 8.  And we’ve continued that, but in a little bit more familiar way.  So if we swipe in from the right hand side you see the Action Center.  For those of you who are using Windows Phone this is actually going to look very familiar.  That’s because it’s the exact same code.  As we thought about getting that kernel, that core of Windows down into a really tight, small, unit that scale across all devices, there’s a bunch of things that can be shared in that core.
The notifications and Action Center is one example of those.  What’s also great about this is if I dismiss a notification on my PC then when I go to my Windows Phone that notification is also dismissed.  I don’t get asked a second time about that same event.  We’ve got awareness of you as the user and your identity as it’s scaled across your devices.  If I go ahead and swipe from the left-hand side this is, again, another gesture that we’ve added.  You’ll see here that we’ve basically gone into that passkey, that alt-tab mode so you can see all of the applications that you have open and available to you.  Alt-tab is a pretty hard thing to do in a touch-first mode where you don’t have a keyboard and so it’s now a very quick and easy way of empowering customers to get a more empowered and personal experience.
So I’m going to go ahead and go back to my map here.  I’m going to go and toggle back from my more touch-first and immersive experience.  You’re going to see the same toast or notification on whether I want to exit tablet mode.  I click yes to that.  That toast is something that the customer can actually choose to automate so that it automatically navigates between the two modes of Windows.  Windows as an operating system is really the only operating system in the world to actually dynamically change our user experience and application experience based off of the state that you’re in the device.
I’m thrilled about the collaboration that we’ve had with you in terms of bringing this experience to life.  Your existing 8.1 devices are going to light up with this experience in Windows 10.  And then when I think about the new devices for Windows 10 the push to adopt touch into more form factors, the innovation we’re seeing in hinge designs, as well as the software work that you’re actually doing to really key in and trigger off that hardware event so that that dynamic transition from a more precise input method to a touch and immersive input method is handled on behalf of the user.  So thank you for the hard work that we’ve got to really make Continuum a great experience across a range of devices.
The second more personal experience that I wanted to talk about here actually teed off of some of the work that we’ve been doing with our new browser for Windows 10, which is Microsoft Edge.  There’s a set of features, first off, the Microsoft Edge browser is something that needs to be blazing fast.  It’s compatible with the Web as we know it today.  But there are three things that I think it does that really empowers the way customer would want to interact with a browser.
The first is Reading Mode; this is your ability to take any Web page and with the click of a button in the upper right-hand corner stream that down into a much cleaner way of actually consuming and reading the content.
The second thing is contextual interaction with Cortana.  I’m actually going to talk about Cortana in a little bit, so I won’t demo that in detail right now.
And then the third piece that I think is interesting here is the concept of pen and touch and inking and annotating on the Web and sharing that with others.
So what you’re actually looking at here today, this is our Windows.com home page.  You can see that it’s highlighting Windows 10.  The thing that I love about the highlight here is the first thing it’s doing is saying “Shop Now,” go ahead and get that device, that 8.1 device, to have confidence that that’s going to work for you.
I’m actually going to get started on this using mouse and keyboard, because I think that’s the opening price point experience for how many people are going to go ahead and experience Microsoft Edge.  So I’m going to go ahead and click on “Shop Now.”  You can see here that it highlights a great set of 8.1 devices that we’re all excited and ready to have capable for Windows 10.
I’m going to go ahead here and go ahead and make an annotation.  So I clicked in the upper right-hand corner.  You can see here now that you have commenting on Web pages.  So I can click on the comment and I can talk about how, check out this great line up.  Directly on the Web page, you can now annotate, make comments, share those with friends and customers.
The other thing I’m going to do is, this is sort of your opening price point good experience, is you can actually have a better and best experience by incorporating touch and by incorporating both active as well as EM-based pen into the experience.
So what I’m going to go ahead and do, you can go ahead and touch here in the upper left-hand corner. Let’s make sure that’s happening there.  And then I can go ahead and write just with my finger, we love you.  There we go.  Thank you partners for all the great work here.  So you can see just with my finger, I’m actually now able to go ahead and write directly on the webpage.  This gets even better if you’re using Active pen solutions or EM-based solutions, because you can take even more advantage of our Windows 10 Direct Ink APIs.  We support things like pressure sensitivity, so you can go from fine point to really thick point; tilt, latency.  There’s a number of really great innovations there.
So I’m really looking on the breadth of devices that you’re building to think about those options where you want to bring pen to the forefront and really explore some of the great investment that we’ve got for Windows 10.  I know we’ve been doing that so far today, and I’m excited about the breadth of devices that Nick is going to talk about that are going to take advantage of some of these technologies.
So we’ve talked a bit about — we’ve talked a little bit about Continuum.  We’ve talked a little bit about Edge.  The next thing that I maybe wanted to talk about here is Windows Hello.
So this is an interesting scenario.  If I think about one thing that everybody commonly does on their device, it’s the need to login.  On phones, lots of these devices in your phones are not password protected in any way.  On PCs, most PCs are password protected, but it’s actually one of the No. 1 support and call drivers, education institutions.  Thirteen-year-olds don’t exactly remember their passwords all the time, so they’re routinely forgetting their passwords.
Within an enterprise, the same thing, you’ve got customers who have been traveling for a while.  They’ve not logged in.  They’ve not refreshed their password, and it becomes a sort of problematic thing for really requiring an IT staff to help you navigate and move across these things.
So with Windows Hello, we’re really moving to a password free world.  I’ve gone ahead and logged in my profile.  It was actually a very quick and easy thing to do.  I’m going to go stand in front of my device here and sit down at my desk, make sure I’m looking at the camera.  It instantly senses me and logs me directly into my desktop, purely based off of my face.  Pretty exciting.  
So I’m going to go ahead and lock this.  What’s great about this is this is using our biometrics framework for Windows 10.  So this happens to be an Intel RealSense IR-based camera.  It also has 3-D capabilities.  But you can also use fingerprint, iris, a number of things.  So there’s a real opportunity here, I think, to innovate in terms of the different designs that you guys can think about putting directly into your hardware.
I’m going to go ahead and do that one more time.  I come and sit down, log into my device, it see me.  Excellent.
What I’m actually going to show here is an application.  Let me just pick the source, pick our camera.  So you can go ahead and see me.  I look super eerie, kind of alien-like right now.  What this is actually showing you is this is the infrared.  It’s basically picking up the heat of my skin.  We can see here, let’s go ahead and dim the lights.  And you’ll see when we dim the lights it changes nothing about how I look, nothing at all.
So that’s great, because the reality is when we think about how people are going to interact and use this they’re going to be in all kinds of ambient light settings, whether they’re inside, whether you’re outside, whether you’re getting ready to watch a movie in your home, we need to be able to support that across a whole bunch of ambient light scenarios.  So that gives me really great confidence when we think about these IR-based solutions.
Another interesting thing here, again, is the importance of actually having enterprise- grade authentication.  This is so that people can’t spoof you.  And so I have, again, same thing, I look like a creepy alien when you look at me through an infrared camera.  I have a super-sized headshot of Roanne.  I don’t encourage you to actually print like super-sized faces of yourself.  It’s sort of strange to look at yourself kind of in the third person.
So I’m going to go ahead and be Roanne.  I’m going to stand in front of the device here.  And you can see that — it can tell it’s as sheet of paper.  It can tell that this piece of paper doesn’t have blood running through it and warmth and sensitivity here.  I’m going to go ahead, throw out the picture, choose me and again it instantly logs me back into the experience.  
So it’s more secure.  It’s exciting.  It’s more secure.  It is so thrilling to see people use this for the very first time.  It truly is one of those experiences that I think elicit that kind of emotion, gets people excited and wanting to tell their friends to go out and get the latest and greatest hardware on Windows 10.
So the next area that I wanted to spend, in terms of things we’re doing together for more personal computing, was to talk a little bit about Cortana.  You’ve seen this in some of the videos.  I’m just going got go ahead and show you here Cortana is actually — she is familiar probably to you if you’re using a Windows Phone.  She is truly the first personal digital assistant.
We’re going to be bringing her from the phone and into the PC.  Again, that’s that concept of the Universal Windows Platform and being able to have a whole range of experiences shared across your devices.  But, she’s also familiar.  In Windows 7 we had a search window here in the Taskbar.  Now we have Cortana who is this mash-up of search if you’re using a mouse and keyboard, but something richer if you’ve really invested in the appropriate audio technology to really light her up.  So you can go ahead and see here she is pulling results from the Web.  I can customize this if there’s specific things, if I like entertainment, or I like sports, or whatnot.  I can tell her what I like.  She’ll do a better job of actually surfacing things up to me as part of this.
She’s powered by our Bing search engine.  So what’s interesting here, let’s go ahead and ask her a question.  Let’s see how she does here.  How high is Taipei 101?  Does anybody know?
  1,671 feet.
 Pretty exciting, I have to say I was floored when I actually saw this desktop experience and desktop wallpaper there.  So let’s go ahead, let’s try something else.  So she’s just proven to us how she can search the Web, pull results from the Web and make those front and center in her responses back to you.  Let’s see how she does with something locally on my device.  Show me PowerPoint slides about the charity auction.  Let me try one more time, because it’s charity versus charity, I need to pronounce my T’s a little bit better here.  Show me PowerPoint slides about the charity auction.
Oh no, I’m Canadian, so maybe it’s my Canadian accent.  I’m going to try one more time, one more time, let’s see.  Show me PowerPoint slides about the charity auction.  There you go.    So what you can see here, in addition to how she’s picking up three ways that Roanne can say charity, is pulling information that I have locally stored on my device, but she’s also pulling information from OneDrive.  And so you can see that she’s pulling from the Web, she’s pulling locally and she’s bringing a bunch of relevant information and content to you.
So those are all great examples of how she can help you aggregate, help you find, help you search in more efficient ways.  But any great truly digital assistant also needs to be able to help you do new things.  So I’m going to go ahead and try one more thing here.  Remind me to pick up my daughter tomorrow at 5:00 p.m.
  OK.  I can remind you to pick up my daughter at 5:00 p.m. tomorrow, sound good?
  Yes.
  Great.  I’ll remind you.  You can also see it in your reminders list any time.
  And so let’s go ahead and just look at the reminders list here.  And you’ll see the reminder pop up.  It’s interesting, apparently I’ve also just given Cortana a new daughter, which I don’t think she knew that she had.
So let’s just go ahead and shut that down for now.  But, this is an experience that I think is, again, one of those things that really gets people to have an emotional connection to the things that they’re doing.  It really gets people excited.  I’m thrilled about some of the work that we’ve had collaborating with a number of you as you think about the sort of audio quality, the microphone arrays that we’re putting into these systems and these devices.  I think we’re going to have a really great lineup in Windows 10 that’s Cortana ready, across a range of devices.
  Sorry, I didn’t get that.
  That was a lot for you to get, Cortana.  That was a lot for you to get.
So the last area that I want to talk a little bit about is DirectX 12 and gaming investments that we’re making for Windows 10.  So when we actually — from a Microsoft history perspective we pulled all of the operating system divisions together to start Windows 10 development.  In doing so we pulled the Xbox team and the Xbox operating system team into the same team.  What’s been great about that is that we’ve now been able to take all the horsepower, all the assets, all the great work that the Xbox OS team has done and we’re now able to bring that into the work that we’re doing from an overall PC perspective.
So you’re going to see some really compelling things.  You’ve got first-party titles, again, because of our Universal App Platform.  First-party titles that are actually coming from Xbox are now going to be available on your PC.  We can preserve your state so you can be playing an Xbox game, pause it, you can go to your tablet or to your other device, get started on that same game and we’ll know where you are.  We have the context from when you paused it on one device, your console, and got started using that on your PC.
We’re sharing entitlement; we’re sharing basically your profile across your Xbox into your PC environment.  We’re even making it possible to use your Xbox peripherals with your PC.  And we’re even doing work to stream in-home, over the Wi-Fi network your Xbox games onto your tablets and tablet devices, which is great, because you can now have a more — less, I would say, capable tablet, but being powered by the horsepower of your Xbox.
So those are a set of things that we’re doing.  What really lights that up in Windows 10 is DirectX 12.  This is a fairly low-level platform technology for us, as I mentioned.  This is a set of graphics APIs.  I constantly actually hound our team for where we’re doing a bunch of low-level hardware work and if you don’t have a very visual way of presenting this to the customer then I really push on, OK, well why are we doing this work?
So I have a pretty compelling video here from one of our Chinese development partners.  And there’s three things I really want you to look for in this video.  The first is how quickly this developer was able to take their DirectX 11 app and get it ready for DirectX 12.  The second thing is I want you to look at the visual experience.  It’s going to be smoother.  There’s going to be more opponents.  There will be a lot of different things when you’re comparing the DirectX 11 and the DirectX 12 experience.  And then the third thing I want you to look at is the actual CPU and GPU usage.  We’re seeing up to 50 percent less CPU time and up to 20 percent less GPU time for essentially performing the exact same task between DirectX 11 and DirectX 12.
What that means and what that translates to for the customer is that they’re now going to be able to get way much more battery life on a single charge, because we’re not having to actually intensely use the processor as we were previously having to do on DirectX 11.  So take a look at those three things.  Let’s go ahead and roll the video.
  Excellent.  So with that, you know, I want to say thank you.  I really, deeply believe that our ability to go from needing Windows to choosing Windows to loving Windows is something that only we can do together.  It’s going to take a marriage of our software and hardware to truly make that happen.  Thank you for your commitment to Windows 10, getting ready for July 29th, this is a big deal for us to accelerate getting these devices out into the hands of customers.
And I would like to, with that, bring Nick Parker out on stage, and he’s actually going to walk you through some of the hardware that you’ll see this holiday season.  
  Thank you.
So as Roanne left off, with our very unique position that we have together with Windows 10 and gaming where, quite frankly, we’re unparalleled in what we can actually do together in the gaming world with an incredible group of fans and a gaming which really has been something that Windows and Microsoft have continued to lead in with you, our hardware partners.
What I’m going to do is just kind of take you through some of that incredible technology, and I’m going to start with gaming.  What you see here, we have the Razr Blade, and this is, in fact, the 14-inch.  Now this device is available today running Intel Core i7.  Not only is this a really powerful gaming rig running Windows 10, which of course will be part of the upgrade, but this is also a great notebook, thin, light, incredible battery, stylish design, available today, but of course it will be a great Windows 10 device, taking all of that capability that we’ve got with Windows 10 in that unique world to gaming on that notebook from Razr.
The second device I’ll show you here is this MSI GT72 Dominator PC.  The reason why I love this PC so much is it’s clearly customizable.  You can see the LED lights, but also the innovation you see here.  This is an infrared set of sensors that enable eye-tracking.  So on this device you can actually track your eyes, and you can see it’s working there on Windows 10, a great piece of innovation from MSI.
This device we can see here is the Origin Millennium, a really awesome powerhouse of a gaming rig here.  And you see it’s running the new NVidia GeForce GTX 980 Ti, which will give you that DX12 capability that Roanne just displayed there, but massively customizable.  You can change the orientation of the motherboard here so you can set that device up how you’d like it along with the customization on the LED.
The Dell Alienware Area 51, again, liquid cooled box, very, very exciting rig, massive extensibility.
Again, all of these running the Intel Core Processor i7 in all of these.  But gaming is somewhere where we’re very differentiated, and Windows 10 just brings even more capabilities to gaming that’s unique, particularly as you start thinking about those Xbox scenarios on the PC.
The next category, and this is a category that we’ve all enjoyed so much growth in the last year, growing at over 50 percent, and that growth is not stopping.  So any of us who partner together on Windows devices in the two-in-one category, we’ve seen growth of some of that tablet volume moving to two-in-ones, as well as two-in-ones really bringing touch and type to the PC notebook experience as well.  That incredible hinge design on the Aspire R13 from Acer.  That beautiful Gorilla Glass surface there, you can see the metallic finish on that.  The ASUS T300t Chi running Core M from Intel, again, this is just such a beautiful device you cannot fail to be wowed by the thinness and the beauty of this device.  I never get tired of showing this device off.  But it’s a beautiful Windows 10 experience you can see running here.  Now all of these device are available today and will continue to give you that great upgraded experience.
Here we have the Lenovo Think Pad Yoga 14, the S3 version.  And, again, this fully converts, the 360 hinge that Lenovo have brought which will really bring Continuum to life, so you can go out and buy this today, and Windows 8.1 update, upgrade it free for Windows 10, use continuum, and then these various other capabilities, and obviously things like Skype with the multiarray mikes.  This also has pen and stylus, so it will work very well in that model.
This is the celebrated HP Spectre X360, beautiful design.  Again, you can see the very high-resolution glass, very thin, great battery life.  This is in fact the Core i7 model.  Beautiful design with that incredibly nicely machined C&C aluminum casing.  Very beautiful design, winning lots of awards, beautiful PC.
So this is the two-in-one category.  And then just to finish here with the Toshiba Z20t, and this actually has a huge battery life in terms of this device here, over 15 hours, and a pen.  A great horsepower machine and two-in-one.  So it’s detachable as well.
This is a growth category.  It will keep growing.  You’ll see more and more announcements from us and our partners.  But, again, these are phenomenal Windows 10 experiences.
Now this kind of mixed area that we’ve got here is showing you some of the growth that we have in new partnerships.  This device is actually from an OEM called Cube, and this is the Cube I7, an OEM, this is a detachable device here.  As you can see, very nice, nice design, but it starts to show where you start seeing growth in the ecosystem as people realize the business opportunity from our growing capabilities in terms of enabling and working with partners such as Intel or NVidia, you really start to see the breadth in partnerships, and people building their businesses on Windows.
This is the Emdoor 8.9-inch again, really nice tablet.  We’ve seen some great success in these devices, and well-celebrated.  We have some very, very aggressive Windows and Office pricing and licensing programs for people who are building these devices.  That’s the Emdoor 8.9.
And then another device here, we have the Lengda H200, really nice notebook, again, in that 11.6 form factor, beautiful design.  You kind of have this brushed metallic finish.
Two more devices, again, that we’ve seen announced very recently, this is a K Touch L9301 Windows Mobile Phone.  And, again, as you saw, that Windows 8.1 phones will get the free upgrade to Windows 10.  A nice design, this is the China Mobile 4G LTE device.  And, again, these are super partnerships.  These are new partners that have come to the Windows ecosystem in the last year.
The is the Q Mobile and the RW 1, again nice Windows Phone, very portable in this size, and people bringing new phones to market and building their businesses on Windows.  So that’s our new partnerships since last year.
This area is new devices, new form factors.  And this is kind of some of the early IoT wins that we’ve got where you see new partners bringing these new devices powered by services from Azure.  In fact, this first one here is the Foxconn device here, the Kangaroo device.  And that’s, in fact, a complete device, a complete PC here, with various different designs you have here.  And this is your full PC with a set of ports and peripherals that you can then plug in and it’s actually got this incredible capability where it’s added battery backup, so as you take it with you, and you can hot swap plug and play into your various peripherals as you can see there, running Windows 10 straight back up on screen.
This I talked about earlier as we announced that unique partnership with the incredible IP that Toshiba has across the Internet of Things solutions.  And this is, in fact, their driver recorder.  So this device would be mounted in a vehicle and will record everything that’s going on as well as back up to the cloud where Toshiba has built some solutions obviously with maps and data using Azure Services, and some of that unique Toshiba capability in both the hardware as well as the cloud solutions as we build that partnership together.  That’s a phenomenal device there.
And you can see really the Internet of Things devices becoming very real, very practical and using that power of Azure to actually be able to bring these solutions to market very fast.
This is the device I talked about earlier, the Environmental Data Logger from Toshiba.  And this is the ruggedized device that could have a battery life from two to six months depending on how it’s used, and this is what will actually be embedded within the cargo container, or within your high-value package or your high-value cargo that contains all of the sensors and all of the capability.  And, of course, it’s going up to the cloud through a hub or through a network, and then all of that data is then being read by Azure, being applied machine learning services to it, and then smart decisions being able to make from a logistics perspective, because all of that data from all of those sensors on that cargo, whether it’s on the high seas or in the air, is being processed.
This is the range of devices that we talked about from Crestron and, again, these are going through the Crestron cloud that sits as an Azure solution.  This is just a good example of the Crestron hub, and some of the connectivity.  And this is, of course, for these home automation solutions or home management solutions.  And they’re a good example of one of the sensors.
So this is, again, in market, come to market, very key devices powered by Azure and the cloud.
This is the most exciting of our areas now.  These are new devices not announced before that will be for Windows 10 devices.  And I’m going to start here with the Acer Z2310 all-in-one.  This is from Acer.  It’s a very, very nice portable all-in-one, obviously running Windows 10.  This is unannounced, so thank you our friends at Acer for enabling us to show this today.  As you can see, very nice portable all-in-one running Windows 10, and a super addition to any living room, or in fact a great desktop.  And these portable all-in-ones, particularly with the mobile battery technology, are getting more and more popular.
This is the new ASUS 100HA.  Again, a very nice device here, a super popular device, we saw incredible success together with ASUS as we took this to market in the last year.  Again, the detachable running Windows 10, Continuum will really bring these devices to life, particularly if you start thinking about also their use with Skype and so on.
Now this device here is certainly one or my favorites today, the ASUS Zen all-in-one 240.  And I just wonder if the camera can come in close here, because this really does start to show how you, our hardware ecosystem partners, really do a phenomenal job about putting some of that technology.  You can see these infrared 3-D cameras here in the bezel of the glass really bringing the power of Windows Hello in three dimensions to your PC.  So obviously running Windows 10 their beautiful design has six speakers.  The team at ASUS just do such a great job.
The next couple of devices I want to show, this one I think you’ve seen before.  This is the Dell XPS 13.  In fact, when this one went through the Forbes editorial team they said they would let go of their Macs for that device.  But, the thing I really want to show you apart from that wonderful glass and the carbon fiber surround and this is new, this is the Dell XPS 15.  So this is the bigger version of that product and it has this incredible infinity edge display from Dell.  That’s a beautiful design.  Look how thin that is, carbon fiber, but a tremendous notebook, particularly in that very, very popular 15-inch size.
The next two new announcements that I’d like to make in terms of this momentum of Windows 10 hardware are these two devices from HP.  This is a new device and this is really a sneak preview, so you’re getting an incredible treat here today form our friends at HP.  But, this is one of the new HP tablets, as you can see a full size keyboard.  It has a pen and you can see here we’ll just move that tablet out of the case, really beautiful.  Look at that stylish design on that nine-inch tablet, very, very cool design for HP.  Another design here and this is the new X2 from HP, with Bang and Olufsen speakers you can, again, see speakers side-by-side the glass, this really nice metal color.  It’s obviously a two-in-one, very good notebook and in that award-winning X2 chassis.
So the final of the new announcements, and it’s great to be able to show this from our friends Toshiba, it’s the new Toshiba two-in-one.  Again, this is a sneak preview, incredible glass here.  This enables Windows Hello with the latest biometric security technology, including face authentication camera, and it’s got an ultra-high-def 4K screen, as well.  And it’s optimized for Cortana.  So when this comes out this is all of our capability of Windows 10 in the hardware and I think it really goes to show that when you start thinking about Windows Hello, Continuum, Cortana, these are software innovations that really enable you to monetize the very best of your hardware innovation, whether it’s the 3-D cameras, whether it’s the incredible engineering you have in the hinges, multiarray microphones that enable high-fidelity Cortana experiences.
These are all ways that you can take that monetization that before we did a great job with touch and ink, but it really takes it to the next generation of you being able to design that hardware extension for some incredibly compelling features.  I mean how cool was that when Roanne was able to open up that PC with enterprise-grade security, through the infrared image of Roanne and her face.
So let’s just talk about the numbers.  What are the most important numbers that we really care about, 7-29-2015?  That is a couple of weeks away.  And I know we are all putting the finishing touches on our products, as we go through that final round of testing and feedback.  There are those of you who are writing drivers and capabilities and this is your opportunity to make sure that we all do that very last piece of quality work, as when we hit 7-29 the world is waiting for us together, whether it’s that last piece of finished manufacturing in the hardware lines, or as I said the driver of that final tuning of our software experience, we’re all counting on each other to get that done, to have the most monumental and wonderful launch together as we take in for the next generation of Windows computing.
We have 1.5 billion people who are using Windows today, of which 600 million of them are using four-year-old PCs.  That is real business revenue share and margin opportunity for everyone together in this room.  And with those capabilities that rely on hardware innovation that you’ve seen in Windows 10 today, we have a clear opportunity ahead of us, and a clear call to action as we execute together for brilliance.
There’s never been an opportunity like this as we launch Windows 10 when we’ve done so many things differently, designed from the ground up with your feedback.  And I just want to say thank you as we go forward together to launch Windows 10 on 7-29-2015.
And before I sign off, let me just leave you with a glimpse of what our partnerships will be like coming forward in the future, looking at how digital and analog are moving together and the lines between them are blurred as we start thinking about immersive experiences and building the hardware and software and services capability together in the world of holographics.
Thank you very much.  I appreciate your partnership.  See you at launch.  
  Thank you.  Well, good morning, everyone, and welcome to WPC.  We now live in a mobile-first, cloud-first world.  And as Satya talked about this morning, Microsoft is enabling customers and partners to transform their businesses in this new world by delivering on three core ambitions.
Today, I’m going to talk about the work we’re doing to build the intelligent cloud platform and how we’ll enable you, our partners, to accelerate your businesses by making your customers even more successful.
We’re in the midst of a generational shift in computing, and it represents major changes for everyone, Microsoft included.  And every organization over the next few years is going to need a strategy for how they move from where they are today to take advantage of what the cloud offers.  They’ll look to adopt SaaS-based solutions for faster time to value.  They’ll look to extend their infrastructure, to use the public cloud to enable better agility and cost savings.
And they’ll look to take advantage of higher-level services like machine learning and the new Cortana Analytics Suite we just announced, to engage better with our customers and reinvent business processes.
And the combination of all three of these elements enables real business transformation.  And all of us in this room together are uniquely positioned to deliver on this as one.
Microsoft now offers the most widely deployed portfolio of business SaaS solutions.  We provide a comprehensive set of capabilities with Office 365, Microsoft Dynamics, and with Power BI.  And with our Enterprise Mobility Suite, we now enable IT to securely deliver as well as manage these solutions, as well as more than 2,600 other SaaS offerings delivered by our partners on any mobile device.  And do so in a way that doesn’t compromise the end-user experience, while at the same time keeping companies secure.
In addition to these SaaS-based solutions, then, Microsoft also offers a comprehensive set of cloud infrastructure services as well as higher-level services that enable organizations to become more agile and differentiate their businesses.
With Azure and the Azure stack, we now provide a consistent hybrid cloud platform that can be used to run any workload, whether it’s Windows Server or Linux.
With our new Operation Management Suite, you can now manage those workloads no matter where they run, whether it’s on premises in an existing customer datacenter, in a service provider datacenter, or in our public cloud.
With our Visual Studio family of tools and Azure App Service, we enable unmatched developer productivity and enable you to rapidly build any type of application and use it to target any device to meet your business needs.
And we’re making deep investments with the next release of SQL Server to enable you to build even better data applications.  And with our new Cortana Analytics Suite that we just announced earlier today, we now enable every organization to transform their data into intelligent action.
And with our Azure IOT Suite, we now enable organizations to collect and integrate vast quantities of data from millions and devices.  And, collectively, when you look across the stack, all of these capabilities enable organizations to be more agile, to lower their costs, and really differentiate and transform their business.
Now, we know we provide these capabilities, but we do so at hyper-scale.  These green circles here on the map represent Azure regions, which are made up of clusters of datacenters, where partners and customers can run their code and deliver solutions to their customers and employees closer than ever before.
We now have 19 Azure regions open for business today.  To put that in perspective, that’s more regions than AWS and Google combined.  
And we have five more regions that we’ve already announced that will be open for business in the next couple months, and you’re going to see these green dots continue to multiply all over the world.
Now, Microsoft is one of only three hyper-scale cloud vendors out there.  And unlike the other two, we’re unique in that we enable solutions to be deployed not just in our hyper-scale cloud, but also in customer and service-provider datacenters as well.  And this enables customers and partners to leverage assets and skill sets they already have and maintain maximum flexibility as they make this journey to the cloud.  And we deliver these capabilities with the support and service that enterprise customers expect.
Our cloud offering enables customers and partners to use the best of the Windows Server ecosystem and the best of the Linux ecosystem together.  And we now provide more than 3,200 different applications and solutions from partners like yourselves throughout this room that customers can use to deploy from the Azure Marketplace.  This enables both developers and IT professionals to use all the tools that they’re already familiar with to deliver world-class cloud solutions even faster.
And some of these solutions will be stand-alone projects, but we also expect, increasingly, many other IT solutions, going forward, are going to be ones where you’re going to want to be able to extend and integrate across multiple SaaS solutions together.  And we’re investing very heavily in extensibility with Office 365, Microsoft Dynamics and Power BI.  And Azure will provide the best cloud platform for building and hosting these types of applications and extensions.
Needless to say, all of these capabilities need to be built on a foundation of trust.  You know, Microsoft continues to invest very, very heavily in delivering security, privacy and transparency initiatives, and ensuring that our cloud has the broadest set of regulatory compliance regulations so customers and partners can deliver to any business environment.
And last but not least, and by far I think probably the biggest differentiator for us is the fantastic partners we have here in this room.  Thank you so much for the work you do.  
Thank you so much for the work that you do and for being on this journey of the cloud together.  Microsoft has been and will continue to be a partner-led company.  And the cloud provides an even bigger opportunity for all of us to deliver even more value to our collective customers and to grow our businesses together.
This slide here just contains just a few logos from the literally tens of thousands of partners that are now integrating and taking advantage of our intelligent cloud platform.  And these are just some of the customers that those particular partners brought to the Microsoft Cloud over the last year and have helped make them successful with us.
We have some amazing cloud and partner momentum happening right now in the market.  Just to put it in perspective, more than 90,000 new Azure customer subscriptions are now being created every single month.  We have more than 1.4 million SQL databases now hosted within Azure.  And we have more than 13,000 organizations who, over the last 12 months, have now deployed the Enterprise Mobility Suite and are using it to secure their environments.
We have more than 3,200 applications and solutions in the Azure Marketplace from a wide breadth of different ISVs and partners.  We have 6,500 partners who are now transacting Azure consumption using our open licensing program, which if you remember we launched just 12 months ago at the last WPC event.
And in the last 12 months, more than $45 billion of partner services revenue was attached to products and services build by the Microsoft Cloud and Enterprise Group, and all of these numbers are going to grow even more over the next 12 months.
What I’d like to do is invite three different partners now on stage, one an ISV, one an SI, and one a managed service provider to talk about how they’re taking advantage of our cloud offerings to accelerate their businesses and make their customers even more successful.
First, and I think, you know, being able to take advantage of all of these different capabilities that we now offer.
Now, the first partner I want to bring on stage is DataStax.  DataStax delivers an enterprise-grade NoSQL offering based on Apache Cassandra.  And they enable customers to build solutions that can scale across literally thousands of servers, which is perfect for a hyper-scale cloud environment.
And one of the customers that they’re working with is First American, who are deploying a solution on Microsoft Azure to provide richer insurance and settlement services to their customers.
What I’d like to do is invite Billy Bosworth, the CEO of DataStax, on stage to join me to talk about the partnership that we’ve had and how some of the great solutions that we’re building together.  Here’s Billy.  
Well, thanks for joining me, Billy.  And it’s great to have you here.
  Thank you.  It’s a real privilege to be here today.
  So tell us a little bit about DataStax and the technology you guys build.
  Sure.  At DataStax, we deliver Apache Cassandra in a database platform that is really purpose-built for the new performance and availability demands that are being generated by today’s Web, mobile and IOT applications.
With DataStax Enterprise, we give our customers a fully distributed and highly secure transactional database platform.
Now, that probably sounds like a lot of other database vendors out there as well.  But, Scott, we have something that’s really different and really important to us and our customers, and that’s the notion of being always on.  And when you talk about “always on” and transactional databases, things can get pretty complicated pretty fast, as you well know.
The reason for that is in an always-on world, the datacenter itself becomes a single point of failure.  And that means you have to build an architecture that is going to be comprehensive and include multiple datacenters.  That’s tough enough with almost any other piece of the software stack.  But for transactional databases, that is really problematic.
Fortunately, we have a masterless architecture in Apache Cassandra that allows us to have DataStax enterprise scale in a single datacenter or across multiple datacenters, and yet at the same time remain operationally simple.  So that’s really the core of what we do.
  Is the always-on angle the key differentiator in terms of the customer fit with Azure?
  So if you think about deployment to multiple datacenters, especially and including Azure, it creates an immediate benefit.  Going back to your hybrid clouds comment, we see a lot of our customers that begin their journey on premises.  So they take their local datacenter, they install DataStax Enterprise, it’s an active database up and running.  And then they extend that database into Azure.
Now, when I say that, I don’t mean they do so for disaster recovery or failover, it is active everywhere.  So it is taking full read-write requests on premises and in Azure at the same time.
So if you lose connectivity to your physical datacenter, then the Azure active nodes simply take over.  And that’s great, and that solves the always-on problem.
But that’s not the only thing that Azure helps to solve.  Our applications, because of their nature, tend to drive incredibly high throughput.  So for us, hundreds of millions or even tens and hundreds of billions of transactions a day is actually quite common.
You guys are pretty good, Scott, but I don’t think you’ve changed the laws of physics yet.  And so the way that you get that kind of throughput with unbelievable performance demands, because our customers demand millisecond and microsecond response times, is you push the data closer to the end points.  You geographically distribute it.
Now, what our customers are realizing is they can try and build 19 datacenters across the world, which I’m sure was really cheap and easy to do, or they can just look at what you’ve already done and turn to a partnership like ours to say, “Help us understand how we do this with Azure.”
So not only do you get the always-on benefit, which is critical, but there’s also a very important performance element to this type of architecture as well.
  Can you tell us a little bit about the work you did with First American on Azure?
  Yeah.  First American is a leading name in the title insurance and settlement services businesses.  In fact, they manage more titles on more properties than anybody in the world.
Every title comes with an associated set of metadata.  And that metadata becomes very important in the new way that they want to do business because each element of that needs to be transacted, searched, and done in real-time analysis to provide better information back to the customer in real time.
And so for that on the database side, because of the type of data and because of the scale, they needed something like DataStax Enterprise, which we’ve delivered.  But they didn’t want to fight all those battles of the architecture that we discussed on their own, and that’s where they turned to our partnership to incorporate Microsoft Azure as the infrastructure with DataStax Enterprise running on top.
And this is one of many engagements that you know we have going on in the field that are really, really exciting and indicative of the way customers are thinking about transforming their business.
  So what’s it like working with Microsoft as a partner?
  I tell you, it’s unbelievable.  Or, maybe put differently, highly improbable that you and I are on stage together.  I want you guys to think about this.  Here’s the type of company we are.  We’re an open-source database written in Java that runs primarily in production on Linux.
Now, Scott, Microsoft has a couple of pretty good databases, of which I’m very familiar from my past, and open source and Java and Linux haven’t always been synonymous with Microsoft, right?
So I would say the odds of us being on stage were almost none.  But over the past year or two, the way that you guys have opened up your aperture to include technologies like ours — and I don’t just say “include.”  His team has embraced us in a way that is truly incredible.  For a company the size of Microsoft to make us feel the way we do is just remarkable given the fact that none of our technologies have been something that Microsoft has traditionally said is part of their family.
So I want to thank you and your team for all the work you’ve done.  It’s been a great experience, but we are architecting systems that are going to drive businesses for the coming decades.  And that is super exciting to have a partner like you engaged with us.
  Fantastic.  Well, thank you so much for joining us on stage.
  Thanks, Scott.  
  So I mentioned earlier we have 3,200 applications and solutions now in the Azure Marketplace, like DataStax.  And, you know, one of the things we’ve done with it that I think is great is integrated that marketplace directly inside our Azure management portal.  You can see kind of a screen shot of the DataStax experience up there.
And the great thing is that every Azure customer can basically go up and not just deploy a dev-test box, but with today’s update, they can actually deploy dozens of servers anywhere and the world literally in just minutes with DataStax preconfigured, as well as solutions from all these other ISVs and partners as well within there.  And it’s a tremendous opportunity not only to give exposure, but also to really automate and make it easy for everyone to be able to deploy their solutions anywhere around the world using any technology.
So the next partner I’d like to bring out on stage is VMob.  And VMob delivers an intelligent personalization platform that they built using Microsoft Azure and Power BI.
And one of the customers they’re working with is McDonald’s, who are using an IOT analytics solution from VMob to increase daily customer traffic and drive an uplift in their revenue.
And here to join me to talk about the great work they’re doing is Scott Bradley, the CEO of VMob.  
  Hi, Scott, thank you.
  Thanks for being here.  So tell us a little bit about VMob.
  Yeah.  Well, as you mentioned, VMob is an intelligent personalization platform.  And the thing that’s different about VMob is we actually generate revenue for our customers.  And the brands that we work with are reliant on physical locations.  So think bricks and mortar retailers, convenience stores, service stations, quick-service restaurants, furniture retailers.
And the challenge that they had is almost 90 percent of their sales come from people walking through the front door, buying a product, and taking it home with them.  And we’re trying to help them sell more in that physical environment.
But the one thing that e-commerce has taught is that recommendations, personalization, targeting of content significantly increases the customer satisfaction and the amount the customers ultimately spend at those retailers.
So what we’re trying to do is we’re trying to bring those disciplines from the digital world into the physical world.  So the example that we’re using today is some of the work that we’ve been doing with McDonald’s in Sweden.  We work with McDonald’s in a number of markets around the world, but Sweden’s a great example where we partnered with a local app developer to build this beautiful app.
And then the VMob platform has been integrated into that app with our SDK.  And with the permission of the end consumer, we start collecting some data.  So we start to look at the product they’re looking at.  And is it around breakfast time?  Is it lunchtime or in the evenings?  And we pick up location as well.
Now, we also link to the weather service.  So if it’s currently snowing at customer’s location, they’re going to respond really differently to a product than if it’s 100 degrees and warm outside.  So that allows us to start personalizing based on the data coming back from the mobile device.
But it’s not just mobile.  It’s about other connected devices.  So is it Wi-Fi in store?  Is it beacons?  Is it digital signage?  Is it the weather service?  Social profiles?  We’ve got all of this data from these different sources coming back into the VMob platform and the Azure cloud environment.
So it really is an Internet of Things platform generating sales for retailers in the physical world.  But they all have three common challenges.  It doesn’t matter who we talk to in what market around the world, how do I get more customers to my stores?  How do they spend more when they’re in the store?  And how do I maintain margin when I’m promoting and discounting product for those customers?
So what I wanted to do is share a little bit of the work that we’re doing in Power BI to show how we’re bringing all this data to life.  And one of the challenges is the sheer volume of data.  So in our deployments, we see 10,000 data activities a second hitting our servers.  And how do I as a marketer bring that to life and ultimately, you know, sell more burgers?
So what we’ve done here is in Power BI is started to link some of these different data streams.  So point of sale with member data, transactional data into a single dashboard.
So on here in the top right-hand corner, I can see exactly where that activity is actually happening in Sweden, as an example market.  This is just dummy data, but on a live dashboard.  Obviously, we couldn’t share specific revenue from our client, but this gives you a representation of actually seeing those customers in real time with data coming back from those devices.
Let’s go back to our three key pillars.  We trying to get customers into stores, so the total number of users on the platform is key for us, 21 million in this case.  Specifically, we’re looking at guest count.  How many customers are coming into the store on this week and over a long-term basis?  So we can see our average guest count is up from 8.1 million to 9.8 million.  So that’s a good increase in the number of customers coming into our stores.
And over time, we’re seeing about 28 percent of our customers are actually using the mobile device when they come into the store.
Now, why is that important?  Well, let’s have a look at this.  What we’re actually seeing here is the average spend of the mobile user is around $6.05.  But the average spend is considerably higher, almost 20 percent, than a customer just walking into the store not using a mobile device.
So a customer using the McDonald’s mobile app is spending 20 percent more than a customer not using the mobile app.  That is absolutely increasing basket value and tray value, using the mobile to get them into the store.
Now, the final thing that we wanted to look at was for McDonald’s is making sure we’re not getting cannibalization.  Well, we just don’t want all those customers to go into mobile.  You know, are we seeing the trend of our nonmobile sales not being cannibalized and have mobile sales grown?  And, yes, we are.  We see that solid blue line on the bottom there increasing.
But the line that we really like as a retailer is maintaining margin.  Just giving away free product isn’t sustainable, so we want to maintain our gross profit.
So the next tile that we’ve got here in gross profit is where we start to see some of the promotions that we’re running.  And we can see the gross profit by coupon.
Now, what’s interesting is this mango smoothie promotion that’s been running.  It’s quite high profit, it’s our third highest-gross-profit product, so let’s have a look at that specific promotion and see if we can get some insights that will actually help drive more customers into the store.
So as we drill down into that data, we start to look at the coupon performance and the gross profit.  But what’s really interesting over here is if we look at the performance in millennials, we see about 14 percent of our millennials — 14 percent of female millennials are responding to promotions.
But what happens if we drill into the specifics of the mango smoothie promotion?  Wow, it’s completely over indexing.  We’re seeing about 22 percent of female millennials really responding to that mango smoothie offer.  That allows us to build a promotion to specifically target on a one-to-one basis female millennials that haven’t seen that promotion before with the mango smoothie offer.  But not if it’s snowing, it’s a product they’ll buy when the weather is warmer.
So it really does allow us to drive margin, discount, and tray value back into that specific business.
So we think this is a really great example of where we’ve used the underlying capability of the Azure stack, tools like machine learning, Power BI, Cortana analytics to really bring data not only into insights, but generating revenue for a customer.  And we build our IP over the top of that Azure stack to create this platform.
  Fantastic.  Thanks, Scott.
  Thanks.  
  One of the things that makes our data offerings unique at Microsoft and the Cortana Analytics Suite that we announced earlier this morning in particular, very differentiated, is the fact that it really is a full spectrum of capabilities that you can leverage.  All the way up from storing data, streaming it in, doing analytics, machine learning on top of it all the way up through the BI layer with Power BI being able to now take that data and those insights and really visualize them for customers and enable them to drive intelligent action from them.
And we’re really excited, we announced just last week that Power BI is going general availability a week from this Thursday.  And so you’re now going to be able to take advantage of that as a partner to build fantastic solutions that you expose to your customers and really help them explore and use data and drive that intelligent action from it in a much deeper way.
Well, the next partner I’d like to invite on stage is Rackspace.  Rackspace is recognized as a service leader, delivering fanatical support to their more than 300,000 customers globally.
And Microsoft and Rackspace have had a 12-year relationship.  And in this year, 2015, they were actually awarded the Microsoft Hosting Partner Award for a record fifth time.  
Today, Rackspace is taking another important step forward by adding Microsoft Azure to its portfolio.  And here to join me about the great work they’re doing is Taylor Rhodes, the CEO of Rackspace.  
 Hi, Scott.
  Thanks for being here, Taylor.
 Absolutely.  Happy to be here.  On behalf of all the Rackers, some who are sitting right here who earned the recognition of Hosting Partner of the Year for a fifth time, we couldn’t be more excited to be here.
And being recognized five times is really, to me, just a reflection of our commitment over time to the Microsoft portfolio of products.  And more importantly, helping our customers get the max value out of your product set.
So I’d like to spend a little bit of time today talking about where we’re going with you guys and how our strategy evolves over time.
  That would be great.
  So at Rackspace, our strategy is really based on two simple big ideas.  The first is what we call fanatical support.  We strive every day to be the customer service leader in our industry.  We’ve built a whole culture around smart, expert, caring “Rackers” — as we call our employees — who are hyper-accountable for creating customer outcomes for you as you leverage Microsoft technologies.
And the second element of our strategy is about choice of technology, helping our customers navigate the faster and faster pace of change in the cloud.
And I think we’re all experiencing this change, right?  As cloud infrastructure becomes ubiquitous, the pace of software and tools and infrastructure choices is picking up exponentially almost.  And so this creates complexity for customers as they try to navigate which products and technologies to use.
All of us want to help our customers take advantage of powerful new tools, but this can be confusing for them.  So they need a trusted partner to help them productize those things as they emerge.
And so the Microsoft product portfolio plays a really central role in this part of our value proposition to our customers.
Today, we’re excited to launch an important new offering live on stage at WPC with you today.  For over 12 years, we’ve been supporting thousands of customers on many Microsoft products and platforms, including things like, back in the day, the Windows Web Server, Windows operating system, SharePoint, Office 365 most recently, SQL — we run over 35,000 SQL databases for our customers.  And so we’ve got a long legacy of working together for our customers here.
But today is the next exciting step forward for Rackspace with Microsoft.  And I couldn’t be more proud to introduce Rackspace fanatical support for Microsoft Azure today live on stage with you.  
We have hundreds of Microsoft-certified professionals on our team.  And now they can help customers who want to leverage the power of Azure to architect their applications the right way from the start.  To deploy to the platform much faster than they usually can on their own, and importantly, you will keep evolving your product, so we’ll keep up with your releases in hopes that they use Azure to its full potential so they get full value.
And, oftentimes, we have found with our customers that we can do it more cost effectively for them than they may be able to do it themselves.  And that’s another element of the value proposition for them.
So this is a natural evolution of our relationship, right?  It follows the journey our customers are on.  We talked about the journey to the cloud today.  I think the world is over wondering whether it’s going to be a hybrid cloud world, and it is.  Our customers are starting from inside their datacenters moving toward the cloud, and most of our customers will be hybrid cloud users.  So they will value the breadth of the Microsoft portfolio and our expertise in helping them build public, private and hybrid cloud infrastructures for them.
But as the mainstream market really starts moving to the cloud in earnest, what we’re seeing is a massive skills gap.  Really, what’s going to hinder adoption is the lack of skills in volume of the cloud technologies and how quickly they’re changing over time.  So that will hold all of us back.  We want to unlock that value and help more and more customers move to Azure over time.  And we think we can do that uniquely well.
Our customers want to use Azure because it’s full of potential power for them, but to get them to really use it to its full extent, they’re going to need help doing that.  And our job at Rackspace is to be their expert, an extension of their team, their specialists that can help them make Azure more powerful for them and maximize the value to their business.
So customers like Ernst & Young create a perfect use case of the power of us working together, the power of your products and technologies, and our fanatical support.
Ernst & Young has an important, strategically important high-growth business unit called Fraud Investigation and Dispute Services.  It is a business unit that has very lofty ambitions for growth over the next five years, and it was very clear from the beginning that the business requirements, global availability, scalability up and down, high performance, security, all wrapped around a cloud model was going to put a lot of stress on EY’s traditional in-house IT model.
They lacked not only the capacity to run their core business and do these new things, but they also lacked the depth of expertise in Microsoft hybrid cloud technologies.
So EY came to Rackspace for two reasons:  One, our reputation for reliability and fanatical support; and two, for our deep Microsoft expertise.  And so now they’ve partnered with us.  And what we’ve done is we’ve designed and built and deployed the perfect hybrid cloud solutions for them, leveraging your technologies.  The results are that they have really simplified and gained consistency and improvement in their operation and service delivery to the business.
And, importantly, also, the other thing we hear from our customers is they don’t really want to be running cloud operations.  They want people to go write code, ship product, do marketing, do things that make their company differentiated.  So EY has also been able to move resource towards more strategically differentiating work by leveraging the Rackspace team.
So together we’re creating bottom-line results.  We’re rolling this out globally with them.  And we’re helping them achieve the scale that they’ll need to get their loft business goals done.
So, for us, being able to work with Microsoft for big customers like EY is a huge deal, right?  And I want to give a compliment to Microsoft today.  I appreciate the investment you’re making in your partners.  Programs like Cloud Solution Provider that you rolled out last year are really key for us in this because they enable us to automate the provisioning and management of your platforms so that we can get focused on adding value through expertise and operations and support for our customers.  So it’s working well for us, and I appreciate you all doing that.
So, today, we’re extending, taking a big, important step, Rackspace fanatical support for Azure, and we’re excited to work with you and your customers to help them achieve the full value of Azure.  So thank you for having me, Scott.
  Thank you so much, Taylor.
  Absolutely.  
  What’s great about the Microsoft Cloud offering is not only can you run and use our technology in your own datacenters and your customer datacenters, but as you heard from Taylor now, using some of the new support we’re rolling out this week at WPC and extending our Cloud Solution Provider support, you can now take advantage and manage our infrastructure as well and be able to provide a full customer experience to your customers that really differentiates and helps them on this journey to the cloud.
We have lots of technology, we talked about a few handfuls of things that you can do here this morning.  The cloud provides really just an enormous opportunity for all of us to deliver even more value to our collective customers and to grow our businesses together.
And we at Microsoft are committed to making sure that we have the best cloud for you to partner with, and partners have always been the backbone of our success, and we will not succeed without you.
This week at WPC, we have lots of breakout talks that we’ll do where we’ll discuss some of the unique opportunities we have to partner together even more, as well as some of the programs that we’re putting in place to drive that success.
And what I’d like to do is invite John Case on stage now to talk about some of the specific partner programs we’re launching this week and how you can take advantage of them as we accelerate our customers’ journey to the cloud together.
Thank you so much for attending, I really look forward to working with you even more.  
  Hello.  Hello and thank you.  I appreciate those of you that are sitting tight and waiting through this last session.  I felt like the last one in the green room at the NFL draft.  That’s never a good feeling.  But anyway, happy to be here.
I promise if you sit tight with me for 10 more minutes, I’m going to make four major announcements that will have an influence on your business this year, and it will be worth your time if you stay with me for 10 more minutes.
So we talked several times today about business transformation, where we’re going.  You know what a priority that is for us at Microsoft.  You’ve also heard from several folks today about the product innovation that we’re making, where we’re adding value in the product, where we think you can make money off of that.
I’m here to talk about the other side of it, the channel evolution, what are we doing in the channel to help you this year make money, be more productive, create more loyalty with your customers.  Our success on this is really happening, and we’re really so glad to see that.  I talked about momentum last year at WPC.  We’d seen so much traction in the commercial cloud, but that traction is only continuing.  A few of these stats, $6.3 billion of commercial cloud run rates for Office, Dynamics CRM Online and Azure; 84 percent year over year Office 365 commercial seat growth.
These numbers are going to keep growing.  They’re going to be even greater in future quarters.  We’re very happy about that.  It’s not just Office.  CRM Online has doubled paid enterprise seats this year.  Azure, 6,500 Azure partners in Open, over 20 times AWS’ partners in the same sphere.  And as Scott mentioned before, $45 billion of services revenue were attached through a C&E project in FY ’15.
This is all work that you’ve done with us.  We thank you so much.  Let me add my thank you to the thank yous from all the folks that have preceded me on stage today.  This is why we’re here.  This is why the partner community is so important.  So thank you again for all the work you’ve done for us this year on the commercial cloud.
I want to talk about how we win together and what our philosophy is.  We have a unique way of looking at the partner channel in the cloud space, we believe, and the first is, we believe incontrovertibly that new product innovation will drive partner opportunity.  Everything you see us shipping, creating, innovating on will land in your channels, in your hands to deliver to customers.  That’s a huge part of our value proposition.
We’ll also make those things everywhere we possibly can available everywhere customers want to buy.  We’re not going to push them towards one channel or another.  That’s why we innovate on things like the Cloud Solution Provider program or CSP.  We want to make things available where our customers are buying, and we need your help with that.
Third, we will take an active role in deployment.  Stuff we did in Office 365 this year with our on-boarding enter or fast track.  While we help do some of the commoditized deployment work it opened a space for partners to add IP, to add management, to add support, and we need you to do that.  So we’ll continue to take an active role in deployment.  We need you to take an active role in finding the new space along with us.
And finally, all these pieces of our platform will be open and extensible.  And we’ll help you monetize and do things with our certification programs, our websites and our marketplaces.  That’s our philosophy.  That’s how we win together.
You’re going through a channel evolution, and we know it’s not easy.  We know it’s hard.  Every partner starts at core transactions and selling.  Then they learn how to deploy.  Then they learn how to manage things like networks, and manage support.  Then they add IP and custom solutions.  But, increasingly we want you; we need you to be in the full service experience, to own the entire customer lifecycle.  We need you to not just sell and onboard, but to enhance manage and then renew customers.  That’s the whole reason behind a lot of the changes we’re making in the programs and policies and products.
That channel evolution is not easy.  We’ve studied this, we’ve studied partners that are doing this well.  We believe our best partners, for example, with Office 365, are right now at 1-1/2X revenue for employee of an average partner.  They are three times the margin of an average partner and they attach something like double as many services.  I’m going to show you some partner examples today, people who are doing this well, knowing how to take our core products and enhance, expand and renew and own that entire customer lifecycle.
So I have four announcements for you to make.  I promised you four announcements, all right, four.  Some have been hinted at, some have not yet, but they’re all interesting and significant.  The first is the expansion of the CSP, or the Cloud Solution Provider program.  I was on stage in Washington, D.C., last year.  I announced the first generation of the CSP in Washington, D.C.  I announced the first generation of this.  It’s the program we created for you to own that end-to-end lifecycle, to own provision, maintenance, billing, support, et cetera, for multiple subscriptions and cloud services.  And it’s been — we’ve seen lots of great momentum with the CSP.  The average CSP provider, for example, is triple the frequency of an open partner, which is interesting.  We’re seeing real traction in that space.
But limited availability, Office 365 only, only in certain geographies, and we were fairly tight on partners being in the CSP program.  And that is changing this year, which is actually very important to understand.  We have added over the last few days and weeks Azure, EMS, CRM Online in 131 countries around the world, and we’ve just released a new commerce API for automated transactions.  All of that has happened in the last few days.  So this is now open for business with you.  We’re very excited about that.
We also have great partners that are doing things with consoles, like Odin and AppDirect.  If you don’t want to integrate directly with our commerce API, you can work with these partners to automate transactions, to integrate directly with your system.  There will be more partners like this, but these are two that we’re going to market with right away.  We’re very happy to have them onboard.
Taylor Rhodes from Rackspace was on stage a few minutes ago with Scott Guthrie talking about what they were doing with Fanatical Support, which is a really technical solution built on Azure to really help customers.  What you didn’t know is it actually was all done through the CSP.  Rackspace is one of our first CSP partners on Office 365.  Now that Azure is in the CSP program, that’s now how they’re doing the entire end-to-end thing.  So we’ll see more and more examples of this.
You as a partner effectively have two ways of working with us on CSP.  One is to be in a one-tier model, and we expect the one-tier model to be much larger this year and much more open than previous years; or in a two-tier indirect model if that’s better for you.  There are something like 39 sessions at WPC this year talking about some part of the CSP.  So I really hope as you go through the sessions — that doesn’t include this, by the way, I don’t count myself — as you go through the sessions, you’ll find out more about this every day.  There are some end-to-end sessions just on the Cloud Solution Provider program.  I hope you realize this is the single biggest investment we’re making in expanding our channel for cloud, and we hope you participate with us.  So that’s announcement No. 1.
No. 2, let’s talk about new incentives to drive active usage.  Certainly active usage is really how you deliver a real end value to the customer, it’s not just getting it sold and deployed.  And right now we are reorienting for Azure, Office 365, Power BI and EMS.  We are reorienting all our cloud competencies and our partner incentives to be based on active usage as opposed to the sale, which is an incredible shift.  And I really thank the Microsoft Partner team for getting this work done with us.
Office 365, Power BI, EMS are seat-based entitlements, which is interesting for Azure and which partners can get up to a 20 percent rebate on customer consumption, which is an incredible investment that Azure is making in the partner channel to drive consumption.
Of course, that’s all great.  You’ve also given us a lot of feedback that you need data.  You need to know what your customers are doing with the workloads that you’ve sold.  And so we’re also showing you here a screenshot of it, we’re releasing a new dashboard to give you visibility into that usage pattern for your customers.  So for Office 365 and Azure, Dynamics will follow soon after, for 365 and Azure, we’ll be giving you this data where you can see active usage by workload for the customers for which you are the partner of record.  And that’s a tremendous shift.  I think it is going to be great for the partners that are really invested in active usage as a discipline.
One example, ProServe IT, which is a great partner in Canada, who really built themselves a business around active usage and selling it right.  They’ve seen, as they’ve focused on active usage, they’ve seen an 8 to 1 ratio in services to licensing.  So for every dollar of Microsoft licensing revenue, they’re getting $8 in services revenue.  And the revenue is up 55 percent over three years.  So congratulations to ProServe IT.  I hope to talk to many more partners over the next few years that have embraced this active usage mindset.
No. 3 three, I’ve just done 1 and 2, here’s No. 3.  No. 3, Azure Certified for the Hybrid Cloud.  I had the privilege also last year in Washington, D.C., of announcing the first Azure Certified program, and we’ve seen tremendous momentum on that, something like 250 partners in 21 countries with 600 datacenters in the Cloud OS Network, which is what we call that.
But you gave us a lot of feedback saying, look, we want to be able to do this for hybrid.  We need your help integrating our hybrid solutions with Azure.  We need your help with things like solution readiness, technical enablement.  We need your help attracting new customers.  That’s what we’re doing.  We’re announcing now, and here’s the link that you can go find out more, the program for Azure Certified for Hybrid Solutions.  You can take the badge.  These will merchandize on the Azure website.  We think this is a big, big fast-forward for customers building hybrid solutions that are based on Azure, and we welcome and embrace that.  So that’s No. 3.
A great example of a partner that’s doing this well is Data Pipe.  Data Pipe is the Cloud OS Network partner now.  They offer cross-cloud managed services across a range of platforms, including our stack, Open stack, VMware, Azure, you name it.  They’re excited, you can see from this quote, they’re excited to leverage their technical solutions with our brand in a joint go to market.  It’s a great example of application partner who is working with us on Azure Certified for the Hybrid Cloud.
Announcement No. 4, and probably the most significant or different than what you would expect, is a new Office 365 Enterprise Suite that we’ll be releasing to the market in the coming year.  We’re very excited about hits.  This is the first time we’ve talked about this publicly.
You’ve seen us do a lot of talking innovation recently announce things like Skype for Business with PSDN Service and Cloud PBX.  We’ve talked about updates to Power BI.  We’ve talked about things happening in advanced security like Lockbox and Advanced Threat Protection, stuff that Julia went through earlier.  We have not talked previously about how we’re taking that to market. So this is that moment.  We will be releasing again sometime during this year a new Office 365 E suite, or E5, that we’ll be able to sell to customers that will include all the rich functionality in Skype for Business on the comms side, like Cloud PBX and PSDN conferencing, include deep analytics like Delve Org Analytics, and Power BI Pro, and it will include advanced security.
The meetings functionality in Skype for business will land in E3, which we’re excited about, as well, and we’ll continue to have great add-ons and promotions with Dynamics CRM Online for sales productivity.  But, E5 will be a way you can go to your customers, upsell them on new value, in current customers.  You can unlock new customers who want advanced security, and we’re excited to deliver that with you.  And you can build new practices in communications.  We think this is probably the biggest new business for us over the next few years in Office 365.
PBX, PSDN related services, we’ll partner deeply with operators, deeply, who will be great PDSN providers, Express Route providers, you name it.  We’ll partner deeply with operators.  But we also believe that Office 365 as an end-to-end communications value prop that will pay off with this Office 365 E5 suite.  There’s a blog about it out right now.  We’ll talk about it as the conference goes on.  We’re very excited about this.  That was our fourth major announcement.  
Just to sum up now, last couple of minutes, the opportunity for this stuff is massive.  We believe with these changes in E5 the opportunity for Office 365 is around $56 billion, which is an incredible number.  Phil quoted a number this morning saying the total cloud market according to Gartner is something like $200 billion by 2018, that’s not very far away, it’s amazing.  And CRM alone is a $21 billion market opportunity and we believe two out of every three customers will deploy into the cloud for CRM.
These are massive, massive numbers.  And so we want to embrace these businesses and we want you to go to market with us on these businesses.  And there is opportunity ahead.  And we’re incredibly excited about it.  We’re incredibly excited about you seizing the opportunity of these new innovations, whether that be Skype for Business, CRM Online, Azure and EMS.  We’re excited about you engaging to drive active usage, using the new incentives, using the new portals and data, we think there’s tons of opportunity to sell it right and get customers using as fast as possible and we’re excited about you accelerating your growth into these new models like the CSP.  We’re building that specifically for you to own your customers’ end-to-end lifecycle.
That’s it for me.  I know, again, I appreciate those of you that stayed.  I very much do, really.  As you walk out it’s time for lunch.  As you walk out we’ll play a video, in that video we’ll announce the location for WPC next year.  Thanks very much for your time, and I look forward to seeing you as the week goes on.
  Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome Microsoft’s Chief Executive Officer Satya Nadella.
  Good morning.  Good morning and welcome to WPC in Orlando.  It’s fantastic to be back at WPC.  As Cortana just reminded us, it’s been a tremendous year, a tremendous year of progress, a tremendous year of transformation.  So I want to first start off by expressing my deepest gratitude and to thank you to each one of you for driving our collective success, but more importantly driving success of our customers.
What makes Microsoft unique is the people in this room, this partner ecosystem.    Many technologies have come and gone, many business models have changed, customer expectations have changed.  But what has remained constant is our commitment to this partnership, and WPC is where we come each year to celebrate the success we have together and also reaffirm that commitment.  So thank you again and it’s fantastic to be back at WPC.
I want to start the keynote off by anchoring us on our ambition.  I want to talk about our mission and strategy, but I want to anchor it on what is the ambition that we collectively share, share for ourselves, but more importantly for our customers.
I want to start with our mission.  In fact it was at WPC last year when I talked about this for the very first time, empowering every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more.  This has deep meaning for us.  In fact, the way we got to this is by going back into our history and rediscovering that core sense of purpose, that soul that drove many a success in our past, a PC on every desk and every home, inventing desktop productivity, democratizing client-server computing, these are all things that we achieved together.
And now we move forward to a mobile-first, cloud-first world.  There are many things unique about this mission.  That is what I want us to center in, in everything that we do with every product, with every customer interaction.  We care about empowerment.  There is no other ecosystem that is primarily and solely built to help customers achieve greatness.
It is not about our products.  We’re not definitely trying to convert our customers into products.  We are focused on helping our customers achieve greatness through digital technology.  We care about both individuals and organizations.  In fact, that intersection of people and organizations is what is the cornerstone of what we represent as excellence and especially if you look around, WPC is where each year it hits me, is we’re a global company.  We want to make sure that the power of technology reaches every country, every vertical, every organization irrespective of size.
These are all unique attributes.  I want to keep going back to these.  There will be many goals like the bold ones that we have achieved, many ambitions like the ones we have achieved.  But what remains constant is this sense of purpose for why, the reason why we as an ecosystem exist, that sensibility is what we’ve got to keep coming back to.
And this is now a mission that we go and exercise in a cloud-first, mobile-first world.  There are a couple of key attributes of what we mean by cloud-first mobile-first that I think are important for us to key in on.  When we talk about mobile-first we are taking about the mobility of the experience.  What do we mean by that?  As we look out the computing that we are going to interface with in our lives, at home and at work, is going to be ubiquitous.  We’re going to have sensors that recognize us.  We’re going to have computers that we’re going to wear on us.  We’re going to have computers that we touch, computers that we talk to, the computers that we interact with as holograms.  There’s going to be computing everywhere.
But, what we need across all of this computing is our experiences, our applications, our data.  And what enables that is, in fact, the cloud acting as a control plane that allows us to have that capability to move from device to device on any given day at any given meeting.  So that core attribute of thinking of mobility, not being bound to a particular device, but it’s about human mobility, is very core to our vision.
Second, when we think about our cloud we think distributed computing will remain distributed.  In fact, we think of our servers as the edge of our cloud.  And this is important, because there are going to be many legitimate reasons where people will want digital sovereignty, people will want data residency.  There is going to be regulation that we can’t anticipate today.  And so we have to think about a distributed cloud infrastructure.
We are definitely going to be one of the key hyper-scale providers, but we are also going to think about how do we get computing infrastructure, the core compute storage network, to be distributed throughout the world.  These may seem like technical attributes, but they’re key to how we drive business success for our customers, business transformation for our customers, because all of what we do collectively is centered on this core goal of ours, which is to help our customers transform.
When you think about any customer of ours they are being transformed to the power of digital technology and in particular software.  There isn’t a company out there that isn’t a software company.  And our goal is to help them differentiate using digital technology.  We want to democratize the use of digital technology to drive core differentiation.  It’s no longer just about helping them operate their business; it is about them excelling at their business using software, using digital technology.
It is about our collective ability to drive agility for our customers, because if there is one truth that we are all faced with and our customers are faced with it’s things are changing rapidly.  And they need to be able to adjust to that.  And so everything we do has to support that goal.  How do they move faster?  How do they interpret data quicker?  How are they taking advantage of that to taking intelligent action?
And of course cost, but we keep coming back to this theme of business transformation throughout this keynote and throughout WPC, because that’s where I want us to center in on, what’s the value we are adding to the core of our customers and their ability to compete, their ability to create innovation.  And anchored on that goal is our technical ambition, is our product ambition.
We have three bold ambitions that I want to talk about.  I want to start off by talking about reinvention of productivity and business process.  Central to this ambition is the reinvention of even the category definition of both business process and productivity.  We don’t think of these things as separate things anymore.  We want to bring together everything that is related to the core creation, communication, collaboration and business process and blend them together.  So what Office 365 represents, what Dynamics represents, we want to bring these different products today into one set of services, which are extensible.  And we want to do this in a way that all the other business application vendors, all the other productivity vendors, can also integrate this.
That is very important.  It’s unique about the approach we are taking.  And the reason why we want to do that is we believe the various category definitions have led to a bunch of impedance mismatches inside of our customers and how they achieve their greatness, their differentiation.  And we need to break down those walls.
In fact, one of the other attributes that’s unique to how we approach things is that our tools are things that you can use both in your life and at work.  What we are going to do with Wonderlist, what we are doing with Sunrise, and Outlook, and OneNote, and Sway and all of Office, these are tools that we want you to use in your life and at work, there’s no dissonance between the two.
We also want to build all of these applications, all of these tools knowing that we collaborate at the core.  It can be a small team, it can be a startup, it can be a large network, which is not even bound to your own organization.  This is where what we’re doing with social and Yammer, what we’re doing with Outlook Groups, what we’re doing with Active Directory, these are core to how we achieve a more dynamic, network-driven workplace.
We are not only building the tools, but we are bringing insight.  Everything that we’re doing across Cortana, Delve and Power BI personally for me has been the thing that’s changed how I interact with Office 365 over the course of the last year.  I start by talking to Cortana about my schedule.   I look at Power BI every day for the leading indicators of our success.  I look at Delve to discover.  In fact, it’s the best visualization of what is happening inside of Microsoft.  It is not about any reports that are sent to me.  It is about exploration of the work being done inside of your organization.
And, of course, one of the attributes that I think is perhaps most salient, but most important, is how we harmonize the interest of friction-free adoption by users and consumers of our product and IT.  This notion of people-centric security and management and identity is so central to what we are trying to do when we reinvent productivity in this process.
One of the dreams that I’ve had for a couple of years now is to really question what is the frontier of it?  You’re going to see a lot of good, straight demos today of what is here and now and what we are going to do in the next year.  But what is possible as we look out?
Just like last year when I was here I talked about how we can change how people communicate using Skype Translate and cross the language boundaries.  What is the equal bold ambition for breaking free of any of the boundaries that we have today between how people come together, how applications come together and how devices come together, especially when you deeply introspect on the nature of our work?
We work to deal with exceptions.  It’s not the happy path.  It’s not like you get up in the morning and just get to work and everything just is automated.  It is all about us bringing our ingenuity to solve problems that happen, challenges that appear, opportunities that we want to grab on to, and that requires us to be able to get more people involved.  It ought to drive us to bring different applications together.  It requires us to work across devices.
And so we’ve got a project started to say what’s that nature of work?  How would we go about it doing something like that, where you’re trying to handle a task as opposed to going to each application?  You’re trying to deal, let’s say, with how you’re going to overcome some churn issue in your customer base, you want to make some pricing changes, some offer changes.  These are the kinds of real issues that we deal with on an everyday basis.  But how will software and applications come together to support you in that?
So I want to first start off by showing you the first demo of what this frontier looks like by introducing Project GigJam and Julia White.
Julia.
  Thanks, Satya.
Now Satya talked about exceptions, in this case customers at risk.  And many of us here have faced that exact situation.  And we appreciate the need to engage with multiple people, get the right information, take action, and move with urgency.  So this type of exception happens across all different businesses all the time.  This is just one example.
And I’m going to show you what it looks like to deal with this exception using GigJam.  So for this demo I am a business manager at a construction equipment company.  And I just got word that a customer of mine might be at risk.  This is a real problem.  I need to take action right away.  I need to get the right information.  I need to bring people together and make sure everyone is on the same page.
So I called this impromptu meeting with all of us here today to deal with this situation.  And I’ve also invited Steve, who is going to play the role of the sales manager.  And he’s on his way.  I think he’s busy picking out his shoes.  That’s all right.  In the meantime, we need to get started.
So let me go over here to my Windows PC, and I’m going to open GigJam.  And you see GigJam, it’s an empty canvas.  So I can fill it up with exactly the information I need.  Now Cortana is also integrated with GigJam, so I can just use Cortana to summon the information.  So first I need to get my customer information.
Hey, Cortana, show me my customers.
Now GigJam in this case is pulling this information from Dynamics, all of my customer information, but GigJam works with many, many different line of business and SaaS applications as well.  So now that I have my customer that I’m worried about, North Wind here, I need a bit more context.  So I’m going to get my orders as well.
Hey, Cortana, show me open orders.
Again GigJam is pulling this information from Dynamics as well, but these are two different data sets, they’re not actually linked.  But I can do that in GigJam very simply, all I need to do is circle the information that I want to link, and at the bottom I’m given options to link right here.  And based on the information here, the data set, it’s actually suggesting what the linkage might be.  So I’m going to go ahead and filter orders by customer.  And just like that you see that all of my orders map with my customers even though these are different data sets in Dynamics.
So I see back here that North Wind has not placed as many orders as they normally would.  So that’s a sign there might be a problem.  So I need a bit more context.  So I’m going to grab my emails, too.
Hey, Cortana, show me my emails.
In this case pulling my email from Office 365 where this is all of my email, and I just want what’s related to my customer.  So let me filter that down.
Hey, Cortana, filter email by customer.
And there it did it.  Again, automatically it linked as well.  So as I flip through my customers, you see my email is linked.  Incredibly simply I’m getting just what I need.
Now I see from my email that North Wind has been having some delivery issues.  So no wonder they might be at risk.  So now I have the information I need, but I need to share it out here in this meeting with Steve who is on his way.  Again, I can use GigJam to share with whomever I want.  Again, I’m just going to circle here the information that I want to share.
Now in this case there are two confidential orders.  They’re the ones that start with the letter Z.  I don’t want to share those, so all I have to do is just cross those out, and you see it’s grayed out, and that means it won’t be shared.  And I have complete control.  So I’m going to go ahead and share this with Steve, who is on his way, as well as the hub here in the room.
Now I have the option just to show the information, but I actually want us all to work together.  So I’m going to choose work with me and share that out.  Now, when I do that you’ll see here on the hub those confidential orders don’t show up.  Again, I have complete control over exactly what’s shown, and what I see on my machine is more, what I share in the room is less.  Clearly this is not just screen share.  This is something very different.
What’s happening is GigJam is actually creating a mini-app, a unique mini-app, with exactly the elements I’ve described.  What I want, it could be UI, it could be data, it could be anything.  It creates that mini-app and then it sends it to each of the devices that I’ve shared.  But I have complete control over what everyone sees, which is so essential to be willing to share in this way.
All right.  Hopefully Steve is on his way so we can get started in the room as well.
  Hey, Julia.
  Hey, Steve.
 I’m sorry I’m late.  I knew you would sort of get started without me, but I was taking a look at some of the information that you shared with me on my iPhone on the way over here.  So I’m right here on my iPhone with GigJam, as you can see.  And I was kind of taking a look at this top order here, and it’s the top order that is giving me a challenge.  It looks like I haven’t —
  Actually, let me try and reshare that with you.  Luckily with GigJam it’s very easy.  I’m going to go ahead and hide those things again, and I’ll share with you.
  Let me just log back in here on GigJam on my iPhone, see if that’s shared out with me.  And it looks like it hasn’t.  So do you want to try and share that one more time.
  I’ll share it one more time here, just in case.
 Let me just login here, Julia, on the phone.  OK, let’s try that share one more time.
  OK, there we go.  So it’s up on the iPhone.
  All right.
  I love my iPhone, third time is the charm.  So it’s this top order that’s giving me some concerns, Julia.  I think on this one we really need to consider our discounting strategy with North Wind here.  We need to keep this customer loyal, so I think that’s one where we need to think about a real discount.
  A discount makes sense to me.  What percentage do you want to do?
  Well, we could flip a coin here and we can come up with a discount.  But I was thinking we should probably involve Katie, she’s the account manager for North Wind.  She’s actually on site with them today.  So why don’t we get Katie involved real time.  She can talk to the customer, get a sense of what we think the discount will be that will keep them loyal.
  Makes sense.  Again, I’m just going to use GigJam to share with Katie.  In this case, she just needs that order information in the middle. But, again, I don’t want Katie to see those confidential orders this time, so I’m going to cross those out again.  And I’m going to share with Katie.
In this case, we know that she’s with North Wind right now, so she’s not available to work with us real time.  So I’m going to have her work on my behalf, which essentially means I can delegate this part of the task out to her, and she can work on it while we keep meeting in the room.  So let me just leave her a quick note what to do.  And I’m going to send that off, and we can continue on with the meeting.
  So as you and I both know that a discount is not a strategy.  We need to get this customer committed long term.  So what GigJam is able to do for me is it calls out into our product database that’s held inside of Infomatica, and it knows the context of the customer that we’re currently working with.  So if I take a look at the products inside of our customer database it automatically knows which customer that we’re working with and these are the products that North Wind is currently using, currently purchased.
So what I think we need to do is think about how do we get them solved on the road map.  So I know that you don’t have access to Infomatica, you have Dynamics.  I’m going to share this out for a temporary amount of time.  I’m going to stream it over to you and to the hub.  So let me in the same way I’m just going to circle.  This particular product I don’t think we need to share on the road map with them.  I’ll share this out to the hub.  And in the same way I’m going to choose to send this over to you.  So let me circle then —
  Let me work with you on it when you do it.
  Sure, let me share that out.  And you’re going to choose to work with me on it.
  Perfect, all right.  Now I’m in the way for just a second because something really important just happened.  What you see here is actually Steve’s iPhone, the Hub, and my Surface PC all have a unique view.  What GigJam has done is, again, created those unique mini-apps and each one for each device you see they’re each a unique view.  And when Steve streamed more it updated that mini-app.   And so now what’s on the hub is actually a composite app of both information I shared from Dynamics and what Steve shared from Informatica.  It’s simply not possible before now.  But it actually goes farther; it’s actually linked the information, as well.  So if I go and I switch customers you see even down to the products it pulls all the way through absolutely amazing.
All right, go back to the issue at hand, of course.
  So we got KT involved to help us with the discount, and I think we need to get the engineering team involved to help us with the product road map, figure out who are the right guys we should send out to the customer and talk about these new products.
  All right, well, Talon is the engineering manager so let me share this product with him, pull that up here and circle there.  You know what, you did it so it works with me, or you didn’t let me work with it.  So share it one more time.
  OK.  Let me just share this out with you one more time.
  There we go, try work with me; there we go, see if that works.  All right.  Let’s try this.  It’s not going to work this time.  That’s all right.  We won’t be able to get Talon in this one.
  OK.  So why don’t we just start, we’ll continue on through I think we wanted to get Talon involved, but on Skype.  He’s not available to us.  Maybe I can just try and share that out with you one more time.  So Talon was going to get involved with this.  He’s on Skype.  We could have him involved, talk about the product road map.
  Maybe I could just share the orders with him and he could do it that way, because he can look at the products and the orders, let’s do that.  I know I can share that with Talon.  All right.  And you see actually Talon is available on Skype.  I see him right there.  So when I send this to him it’s actually going to prompt an automatic voice call, as well, so we can have a conversation about the information I just shared.
Hey, Talon.
  Hey, Julie, how are you doing?
  Well, we’re good, but we have an urgent customer situation.  And I need some people from your team to help out.  I sent you some of the orders you can see the products I’m talking about.  Can you recommend which people should go talk to North Wind?
  Yes, so those products are definitely Antole and Bau, so let me make a quick note for you so you can follow up with them later.
  Great, just put their names in GigJam, I’ll be all set. Thanks for your help.
  No problem.
  Bye.
All right, we know it was incredibly efficient, right.  I only needed Talon for that one part of the meeting.  He didn’t have to be here for the whole meeting.  And of course Talon is happy, because engineers hate meetings.  And we can just keep going, as well.  We’ve already got that done.
Now, Katie has gotten back to us, which is great.  So let me go ahead and see what she’s done.  Remember I had her work on my behalf.  So I delegated this part of the task to her.  But, because she’s working on my behalf I want to review that before I approve it in the system.  So here in GigJam I can just go ahead and play that back and I can see exactly the changes she’s making, all of the edits here.  So, Steve, it looks like she’s recommending going from 14 percent to 25 percent discount.  What do you think?
  Well 25 percent is a pretty steep discount but I think we should say that to keep this customer loyal we’ll make that a one-time only discount.  So I would approve that from sales.
  All right.  I’ll go ahead and accept that. And in real time based on that mini-apps update, everywhere I’ve shared, and Steve can see them as well as on the Hub.
  I think we’re done.  We’ve got this customer loyal.  It’s great working with you, Julia.
  All right.  Thank you.  I appreciate the fast work.  
Then normally a customer at risk situation like this would have cost me half of my day, chasing after the right people, getting the right information and making sure everyone is on the same page, but now with GigJam I was able to summon the information from across all my different systems, link that information incredibly seamlessly and then divvy up the work, not the communications about the work, the actual work tasks themselves.  And I had complete control of exactly who got what information and how it got approved in the system.
So with that back to Satya.  
  Thank you, Julia.
That gives you a glimpse of what is possible when we break down the walls between devices, applications and people, and how we can bring them together.  What you saw was not some fancy screen sharing.  It was effectively creation of an application for a specific task that spanned many apps, many devices and many people on the fly and distributing that app to all of those devices.  That’s what we think is the future of business process and communications in productivity.
So I want to move on to the next ambition we have, which is about building an intelligent cloud.  With Azure and our servers they form the core of this distributed computing fabric, the richness, that is required from truly supporting hybrid computing, to rich data services, application developer services, in fact, one of the core attributes or the core differentiators is productivity of developers in IT.  These higher-level capabilities that we have from our enterprise mobility suite, or the operations management suite, our Visual Studio online capabilities, they all come together so that you can with agility drive those application development projects and IT projects for your customers.
We are the only vendor that’s going to bring together from an infrastructure level three key attributes of hyper-scale public cloud, hybrid as well as the enterprise readiness.  And we’re going to do this with the openness and flexibility.  You can write .NET apps and Java apps.  You can run Windows and you can run Linux.  You can support the back end for any application across Windows Phone, Android and iOS.  You can manage the identities; you can manage data, and protect that across all of those platforms.  That level of flexibility and openness is what we want our backend infrastructure, our developer tools to stand for.
But the thing that I perhaps want to talk most about today is data.  The key challenge or the key opportunity for any organization is to be able to convert data into intelligent action.  In fact, the core intellectual property of any business going forward, the core currency of any business going forward is their data.  And the way to take advantage of it, of course, is to convert it into intelligence and more importantly intelligent action.  And to do that you have to work through a series of stages.  In fact, there are multiple questions that need to be asked and answered.  You want to be able to find out what just happened, why it happened.  You want to be able to predict things that may happen and you want to get to automatically doing things because of your predictions.
So we have taken all of the technology that we have underneath a lot of our own applications that we have built, that exhibit these core analytics capabilities, Cortana, Bing and its Web understanding, what we have done with vision and speech, and we took all of the big data infrastructure, machine learning, and all of that capability and we’re bringing it together in one suite called Cortana analytics.
This capability is what will help each one of you take very sophisticated technology and enable any business to transform themselves through the power of data.  It’s going to have core information management capability.  That means you can harness all the data inside of your organization.  It’s going to have capabilities to store all this data in its native format, so it can be big data, it can be non-SQL data, SQL data.  You want to be able to practice this using a variety of different mechanisms, stream analytics, machine learning, SQL, Map Reduce, and then ultimately you want to be able to interface all of that through something like Cortana, or to automating of business processes.
And one of the key things that we are trying to do, in fact, the way I think about this is when we were at the beginning of client-server, what really democratized client-server was innovation like Visual Basic.  What is the modern equivalent of democratizing big data and advanced analytics?  That’s what led us to Cortana Analytics.
And I want to talk about one organization, because this I think speaks to what’s the potential.  This is a small group that has a dream and they want to use data to pursue that dream.  Let’s play the video.
  All right.  So I’m sitting here with Brandyn Bayes from North American Eagle.
Brandyn, in fact, this all got started a year ago when you sent me a piece of email.  So tell me a little bit about North American Eagle?
  Well, North American Eagle, it was originally a Cold War era F-104 Starfighter, and what we did is we took it and we took the wings off, and with this we are going to go out and break the world land speed record of 763 miles per hour.
  Amazing.  How did you get involved in all of this?
  Well, I actually got involved with this about four years ago.  Keith, one of the project owners, he was mentoring for another robotics team, and they held off on software a little too long, and that too long was 30 minutes before the game starts, by the way.  So someone says, hey, go grab that kid from over there.  And they brought me over, and we got the robot coded.  And Keith was really impressed, and he said to me, hey, I’ve got this special project, might you be interested in joining?  What he did not tell me was that this special project of his was a 56-foot long jet car that breathes fire.
  That’s so cool.  So what’s the role of technology and Cortana Analytics in everything that you’re doing?
  Well, with a vehicle as complex as this, we’re trying to go 800 miles an hour.  And when you’re going that fast, you want to have as much data as you possibly can to know that you’re doing what you should be as safe as you possibly can.  So at any given point during the run, we’re collecting a total of 60,000 points of data from across the car.  And with Cortana Analytics, we’re able to take all of that data at the end of the run and actually make sense out of it.  And instead of a person trying to sort through 30 million points of data, Cortana Analytics actually tells us where we need to be looking at this information.
  It’s amazing.  So with each run you’re essentially collecting all this deep data, reasoning over all of it, figuring it out, and then going for the next run with modifications.
  That’s exactly what we’re doing.  And something important to understand about land speed racing.  We get exactly one hour in which to turn the car around, refuel it, and run it the other direction to validate our speed.
  So you’re using all this power of the cloud to keep the car on the ground.
  That’s exactly what we’re doing.  But we’re not just looking at what’s going on now.  We’re also looking to what’s going to happen next.  And with machine learning, we’re actually able to take all the data that we’ve collected so far and predict what’s going to happen.
  That’s awesome.  So what’s next?
  Well, in September we’re going to take the car down to Southeast Oregon to the Alvord Desert.  We’re going to run it up to 650 miles an hour.  Jessi Combs is going to set the women’s land speed record.  Ed Shadle, our driver, is going to add another record of his own.  We need about $100,000 to make that possible, so we welcome any help through our Kickstarter page.  And early next year, we plan to go set the world land speed record.
  Thank you, Brandyn, so much.
  Thank you, Satya.
  I’m pretty positive that there are going to be a lot of people willing to help you on that.  And the reason why I wanted to stress what Brandyn and team are doing is because it shows the power of something like Cortana Analytics being accessible to any organization across the planet irrespective of their size, because that’s really what we as an ecosystem stand for, especially when at WPC I know there are many of you who deal with small businesses in particular, and when we talk about capabilities like machine learning, they’re going to transform not just large enterprises but even small businesses and their pursuit of their dreams and their business.
So I want to move to the last ambition, personal computing, the very core of our company.  In fact, in January we started talking about Windows 10 and how it’s going to usher in this new era of more personal computing.  We couldn’t be more excited.  We are three weeks away from launch, and it’s not just the technology, but what Windows means for this ecosystem is what’s humbling and is what’s driving us.
And when you think about the core innovation going forward in personal computing it starts with the very nature of input and output.  Windows 10 is going to run on everything from a Raspberry Pi to phones to tablets to PCs to Surface Hubs and to even the HoloLens.  We’re going to have this one unified platform, one unified experience, and that to me is a key differentiator of what Windows stands for.  You’re going to be able to interact with it in the most natural of ways.  You’re going to be able to speak to it like you interact with Cortana.  You’re going to be able to touch.  You’re going to be able to ink.  You’re going to be able to do mouse and keyboard.  You’re going to have the ability to do things like the holographic output.  That natural interaction is going to be a unique capability of this one operating system that spans all these device types.
It’s going to be built for that very notion of mobility of experience across all of these devices.  The feature that I’m most excited about in Windows 10 is this Continuum.  It’s going to transform how we use devices in different modes.  The notion of multimodal input is something that we make possible with innovation like Surface and Windows coming together.  That’s one of the core goals we have in terms of first-party hardware, creating new categories, stimulating demand for the entire ecosystem, and driving innovation.
Trust, the more we talk about personal trust becomes even more important, because at the core of Cortana is the ability to collect all the personal data, your calendar information, your email information, your likes, your history, and reason over it, so that it can help you with your attention, your time, which is the scarce commodity.
And in order to be able to do that you have to build trust into the core.  It can’t be conflated with other business models.  It has to be built for you.  And to us, Windows 10 and what we’re doing in terms of building that trust, that notebook capability of Cortana, that’s very, very important.  It’s just not a feature.  In fact, it is everything as we think about more personal computing.
We will, of course, lead the way when it comes to management and security of Windows devices.  And management and security, Terry Myerson will come talk more about this, matters even more now not just on your computing end points, like the desktop or the tablet or even the phone, but even in your sensors, because the attack vectors of the day today come from all these places.
But when we think about more personal computing, the history of personal computing is punctuated by changes in input/output.  And in this context, I’m very excited about what holographic computing and HoloLens represent for the Windows ecosystem, what it means for us as partners.  In fact, this morning I want to show you how holographic computing and HoloLens can fundamentally change one of the core applications that is run on the desktop, Maya from Autodesk, which is a 3D app or 3D modeling app, which will fundamentally change how people think of what is possible with computing.
And to show you that, let me introduce Lorraine from our HoloLens team.  Lorraine.
  Thank you, Satya.
Together with partners, we can redefine how people work using existing software and tools in combination with Microsoft HoloLens.  Specifically today we’ll take a look at using HoloLens with Autodesk Maya to rethink how we design in 3D.
Maya’s 3D modeling and rendering software offers a comprehensive creative toolkit.  And with HoloLens Autodesk can extend their existing software to provide new value to their customers.  First you’ll see that we’re using a special camera today.  With this camera we create a display technique that’s like putting a HoloLens right on the camera itself so that the entire audience can see what my colleague Dan is seeing.
 Thank you, Lorraine.
Using HoloLens we have shown that it can revolutionize the way people work, play, communicate, learn and create.  Today I want to show you another example of how holograms can change the way you work and create.  Creating 3D scenes using 2D tools require a lot of training and practice.  Sometimes to test a design I create physical 3D prints of the model to make it easier to understand its relation to the real world.  But, 3D prints are time consuming and expensive to do frequently.  Today I’m going to be using Maya by Autodesk and I will show you how HoloLens doesn’t need to replace the workflow I have mastered, which would be very costly, but instead can extend my existing tools and add spatial understanding to help me visualize my work better and improve my productivity.  So let me put on my HoloLens and show you what I’m working on.
So right here in Maya I have my motorcycle that I’ve been working on.  And to the right I have a holographic representation of the bike and everything you see, the stage, the motorcycle and the toolbar can all be seen on my HoloLens.  And everything I do in Maya instantaneously updates on the hologram.
  In addition to that Dan can go beyond his monitor.  He can manipulate the model directly, which will make real-time updates in Maya.  To do that is really simple.  Dan just takes his mouse; he drags the cursor off the screen onto the hologram.
 So the first thing I’m going to do is I’m going to rotate the bike, so you can see it from all sides.  I can also scale it.  I’m going to make it small and real big so I can see all of the details.    I can also move it and place it wherever I want on my desktop.  And if I had a 3D print I could put them side-by-side and compare them.
  Dan is still doing all of this work in Maya.  He’s leveraging his experience as an industrial designer.  Now one of the great things about HoloLens is that you can still see the real world and all of the objects in it.  And you can overlay them with precise holograms.
  So let me show you what we mean, real-life mode.  
So what this allows us to do is make changes directly on the motorcycle and see them in real time.  Load orange.  That looks pretty nice.  I think I like the blue one a little bit better.  Load blue.  Another thing I can do is add interaction points directly on the motorcycle and make changes to it.  So let me update this mirror real fast.  OK, that looks pretty good, let’s bring it back just a little bit.  All right, that’s nice.
  You can see how Dan can lean over the bike, exactly where the rider’s head would be, so that he can evaluate if those mirrors are in the right position for the rider.  Now this is something you just couldn’t do with a 2-D display.  So we’ve talked a lot about how modeling 3D in 3D delivers faster iteration.  Let’s take a look at how HoloLens can improve collaboration.
The mechanical engineering team for this project is located in Barcelona, which is a significant time difference away, but the ability to effectively communicate across time zones is critical to the success of this project.
 All right, let’s see if the Barcelona team has left us any notes.  Show comments.  One of the things that HoloLens can do is it knows exactly where you’re standing and where you’re looking when you leave a note, so you’ll see that when I play Carlos’ note.
 Hey, guys.  We updated the wiring plans.  Can we move the turn signal stocks from down here to up here?
  This kind of additional context, seeing exactly what Carlos was looking at, adds further meaning to any note or communication that you leave behind, and clear communication improves collaboration, which leads to faster results and much higher confidence decision making.
As you can imagine we are incredibly excited to help partners extend their existing tools with HoloLens.  This was just a glimpse at how designing in 3D is changing.  We cannot wait to see what all of you do.
Now back to you, Satya.
  Thank you.
Each time I see it it just gets even more exciting.  It’s really truly mind-blowing.  Up to now we have thought about computing mostly as these mirror worlds where we have tried to model in digital form what you see in the real world.  And for the very first time we’re going to have a computer which is going to allow us to mix the digital and the real, these mixed reality worlds.
And ever since we announced this in January, we have been getting a tremendous amount of interest from developers of all kinds and enterprise customers and businesses, because we think that many of the business processes, many of the things that we do today using computers can be fundamentally changed like the industrial design example you just saw.  So we’re excited about bringing HoloLens to developers and enterprises, and you’ll hear more about it even in Terry’s talk.
So I want to close out, hopefully you got a glimpse of what that sense of mission and purpose that drives us collectively to help our customers transform, both as individuals and as organization, that notion of empowerment.  It starts with this high ambition that we have for reinvention of productivity and business process, what cloud and analytics can mean in ushering in the era of intelligence, and more personal computing.
Thank you very, very much.  Have a great WPC.
  Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome the corporate vice president of Microsoft’s Worldwide Partner Group, Phil Sorgen.  
  Good morning, and welcome to the 2015 Worldwide Partner Conference.
Wow, what a way to start the morning.  Special thanks to Recycled Percussion for that incredibly energetic and innovative show.
Well, it’s not every day that I get to stand in front of more than 12,000 of my favorite partners.  And I’m honored to be here with you this morning to kick off the Microsoft fiscal year.
I also want to thank you for all your contributions to our business, and all the world-class solutions you deliver to our shared customers.
Your success means everything to us, and I’m so appreciative of you taking the time and making the investment to join us this week at the Worldwide Partner Conference to explore opportunities with us and with each other.
Now, before we go any further, I want to recognize some outstanding performances from within our partner ecosystem.  Through the Worldwide Partner Conference Partner of the Year awards we had thousands of submissions.  And I’ll tell you, there were some amazing customer stories represented by many of you here today.  But through a comprehensive review process, and a difficult one at that, we narrowed it to a group of special folks sitting right in front of me today.  These partners represent the best in all of us.
So please join me in congratulating the 2015 Partner of the Year award winners!  
I want to thank you all so much for your commitment to our customers and for being an amazing example of what a partner in the Microsoft ecosystem can do.
Why are we here?  Candidly, the opportunity is huge.  IDC forecasts the all-up cloud services business to be 200 billion by 2018.  And to put that into growth terms for you, that represents a compounded annual growth rate of five times the rest of the IT market.
And you know what, Microsoft has really big ambition for what we can achieve, and we have really big ambition for what you can achieve with us.
And that last point is really important, because IDC tracks the revenue in this industry as to how much goes to the channel and how much goes direct.  And in their latest report, 92 percent of all Microsoft revenue is through our partner ecosystem versus 39 percent for the rest of the IT market.
And we’re going to continue to invest to make sure we can go after that growth opportunity.  And I want to remind you of the four ways we invest in this partner ecosystem every single year.  And I only start with the importance of delivering world-class products and services that our customers want and that you can build a profitable business around.  And to support that we’ll invest over $11 billion in R&D to continue to have the best pipeline of innovation in the industry for you to build opportunity around.
The second area that we’re focused on is creating markets, creating markets for you to be successful in.
Now, we have the global reach to drive broad awareness, and we know that’s important, because when a customer has a preference for a Microsoft solution, it drives down your cost of sale and increases your sales velocity.
But we won’t stop there.  I can tell you that we will launch campaigns around the world like ModernBiz and Empowered by Digital that will help grow your business and help drive more customer reach.
The third area is enabling your business, and we know that’s important given the cycle of innovation, the pace of innovation in this industry today.  And Microsoft Partner Network is at the center of how we invest in enabling you.  We’ll continue to invest heavily in assets like Internal Use Rights, Signature Cloud Support, training and so much more.
And the last pillar is that last mile of sales and marketing execution.  We’re proud of the fact that we have over 3,000 Microsoft employees in our subsidiaries around the world that are solely focused on our shared success.  That’s an industry benchmark that we take pride in.
So over the course of this week we’re going to share a number of examples of programs and enhancements to existing programs that are going to help you drive growth.  And I want to share a few examples of those right now.
I want to start with one we introduced at Worldwide Partner Conference in a limited release a year ago, and that’s the Microsoft Cloud Solution Provider program or CSP.  Today, we fully launch the CSP program in 131 countries, available to more partners, with greater capability, across all of our cloud services.
Now, I’ll ask you to stay tuned, because at the end of this vision keynote this morning, John Case has more to share with you on that.
We’re humbled by the interest from our customers in our Surface products, and we’re also humbled by the interest from many of our partners in having that as a part of their portfolio.
With the help of our distribution partners, today we’re announcing that we’ll be expanding the Surface reseller program from a couple hundred resellers today to a few thousand around the world over the coming months.  And over the course of this week there will be a couple of breakout sessions available for those interested to learn to become a Surface reseller.
We’re going to continue to invest in mobility, announcing the fifth in our line of cloud performance path competencies with the introduction of EMS that will be available in September.
For our ISV partners we’re simplifying the process for you to qualify for the cloud platform competency through our new app certification process.
And we’re going to continue to invest in resources to help drive your profitability.  The most recent that we’re releasing is 20 scenarios that represent opportunities for you to build practices in your business around.  And for each scenario we’re providing best practices and a financial model so you can make the best choices and learn from the experience of others.
I can tell you throughout this week you’re going to see proof positive of how we’re investing across all four of these pillars.
Now, I want to move to the vision keynotes and talk about how you can participate this week.  And you can see the agenda on the screens above.  Today, in just a few minutes, our CEO Satya Nadella is going to take the stage and share his vision for Microsoft, as well as the three bold ambitions he’s laid out for this company.  Then we’re going to drill into each of those, and we’ll wrap up this morning’s session with some announcements around how we can grow our business together.
You can see on Wednesday it’s all about you, with several Microsoft leaders talking about how to tackle the change and dynamic market that we’re in around cloud solutions.
And then Kevin Turner, our chief operating officer, will take the stage and share how we can achieve more together and get the fastest start possible to this fiscal year.
I also want to point out the fact that we have over 20 general sessions and over 450 breakout, panel and workshop sessions for you to participate in.  I encourage you to build a custom agenda that really aligns to the topics most important to you, so you can get the greatest return on this week.
And the last thing I want to point out is connecting with us and each other.  I hope you’re plugged into the WPC Connect tool, because every year over 40,000 meetings are scheduled through that tool between you and the 3,000 Microsoft employees that are attending this conference with you, and between partners who are discussing new opportunities together.
The great thing about this partner conference is business gets done here.  That’s our expectation, and that should be yours, and that’s what makes WPC so special.
So let me just close by saying we are fortunate to participate in the most vibrant industry on the planet, and success is ours for taking.  Make the most of every moment this week.  I know I will.  This conference is truly about how we can achieve more together.
Thank you, and I’ll see you throughout the conference.  
    Thank you.  Now, Satya earlier spoke about the changing workplace.  And this is technology driving this, of course, but it’s also really about people’s preferences.  And I’d like to talk about that as what I call the “Millennial Effect.”
And when I say that, I don’t just mean the millennial generation.  Of course, that’s an important part of it — half of the work force, in fact, by 2020 is a millennial.  But, really, it’s about how that work style has affected all of us.
If you think about our workplace today, we’re always connected, we’re far more collaborative, and we’re always more open than we ever have historically been within the workplace.
And it’s also about work is what we do and not where we go.  As we’ve been saying, “workplace” is a little bit of a misnomer because it’s not really a place for many of us at all.
Employees also expect their apps to be tailored and proactive, exactly for the task at hand.  And expectations of responsiveness have gone up.  When I tweet to a company I’m interacting with, I expect a response immediately.  And it’s that set of expectations and mindset that is shaping the workplace.
So let’s talk a little bit about the areas of innovation where we’re driving this change in how we all can work together.
First, in communications.  And when I say communications, it’s a very broad category.  So it’s e-mail, enterprise, social, IM, voice.  And, historically, these have been pretty siloed, different kinds of communications.  And what you’re seeing the industry and us do is to break down those silos.
And we’re centered around people.  Because no matter how I’m communicating, it’s always about a set of people.  And that’s what’s so fundamental with what we’re doing with Office 365 Groups.  No matter how I’m communicating, no matter how I’m collaborating, I can get back to that group and always know what’s happening and have that sense of what’s going on with the group of people or even a broader organization.
Now, communications, this area also continues to be the place that’s leading customers to Office 365.  It continues to be the first workload people want to go to the cloud with.  And that’s why you’ve seen us invest so deeply in making a fantastic deployment experience, making it seamless with our Fast Track Deployment Center, so we can get our customers to the cloud so all of you can add your value-add services on top of it.
We also have a bunch of new investments around communications.  Exchange Server 2016 coming out.  Skype for Business Server earlier this year.  The Skype for Business Cloud PBX coming later as well.
And as Terry so articulately talked about, security is absolutely top of mind, and communications more than anywhere.  Any day you can open up a newspaper and see what happens when something is breached from a communications perspective.  And it used to be about brute force attack, but now it’s much more specific — phishing, identity theft, going after individuals.  And that’s why particularly around communications we have an incredible investment in security, advanced threat protection, encryption always, multifactor authentication.  And now we’re en route to next year being able to have bring your own key to Office 365 as well.
Getting into meetings.  We know today the majority of meetings have a virtual attendee, but yet video is rarely used inside the workplace.  We use it in our personal lives, but not at work.  Yet 55 percent of communication is nonverbal.  That means the majority of our meetings have people that are missing more than half of the context of that meeting.  It’s just unacceptable.  Video is essential, but it has to be easy, it has to be seamless.  Just like walking into a room and sitting down and meeting with someone.
And that’s why I’m so excited about the work we’ve done between Skype and Skype for Business and bringing those experiences together.  So now we have this great user experience that’s engaging, it’s fun, it’s video friendly, but yet all of the capabilities and the back-end compliance and security that you need from a Skype for Business perspective.  Really bringing the best of those both worlds together.  And as Satya talked about making it great for work and for life, and that’s the experience we’re delivering.
Beyond that, it’s about the meeting room itself.  If you look at meeting rooms, they’ve kind of been like time capsules.  They haven’t changed in decades, frankly, despite having new technology that can help.
Well, now with the Surface Hub and that Skype for Business integration, we really have the best meeting device.  It’s simple to use, it’s one touch, everything is captured digitally on my OneNote, annotated on my slides, whatever it might be.  Because we’re kind of in a world where we’re not printing things, and we need to make sure we have all the latest versions of things.  And that’s what that meeting experience is.  Before the meeting, during the meeting, after the meeting.  And that’s what we’re looking at end to end.
Into content creation, this is really where the Office core apps come, Word, PowerPoint, Excel.  And they’re fantastic individual productivity tools, but we’re busy making them more than just that.  Satya talked about teamwork being so central.  So that’s why we’re shifting the Office core apps from being very “me”-centric to very “we”-centric because co-creation is the norm.  That’s how work gets done, in teams and networks.
Whether you’re managing your pipeline opportunity in CRM and you have your shared OneNote notebook so everyone has all the information.  Or if I’m collaborating on a document and we’re iterating rapidly and we’re doing real-time co-auth.  We’ve had that in the online experience, and you saw Brian showing the desktop experience too.  So real-time co-auth in desktop as well because that’s how we work.
And so fundamental to this is cloud storage.  If you’re not saving this to the cloud, that means you’re not able to share and collaborate in the way that you could and would.  It also means you don’t have access across your devices as well.
In a world of teamwork and team selling, saving locally and collaborating via e-mail attachments is just simply outdated.  And it’s all of our collective jobs to get out to our customers with that.
And I have a great story that really pays this off.  So with Office 365 Education, we spend a lot of time with students.  Recently at a U.S. high school, we were watching this young man pound away on his laptop.  And one of the researchers leaned over and said, “Hey, when you work, do you ever save local?”  And the high school student stopped and looked and he says, “What’s that mean?”
That’s a good question.  Why would he ever do that?  He wouldn’t be able to work across his devices.  He wouldn’t be able to collaborate with his classmates.  That’s the mindset we all need.
Now, speaking of cloud storage, that gets me to my file-sharing content management.  Now, first, I want to talk about SharePoint.  There seems to have been some question about our commitment to SharePoint in the past year.  I’ve certainly seen our competitors out there creating FUD about us not being committed to SharePoint.
At the Ignite Conference a few months ago, I actually read the 423 pieces of feedback that came on the keynote.  And I saw a lot of comments that said, “I didn’t hear a lot about SharePoint.  Julia only said SharePoint a couple of times, what’s that mean?”
Today, I’m here to say, SharePoint.  SharePoint, SharePoint, SharePoint, SharePoint, SharePoint!  We are absolutely committed.  We have a fantastic SharePoint Server 2016 coming out.  Rock-solid code based on the cloud.  For the first time, we’re taking the cloud code base and delivering that with our SharePoint Server 2016.  Which means you get the great reliability, performance, scalability that we’ve learned from the cloud into the Server code base.
It also is built for hybrid.  We know that SharePoint will be in hybrid for a long time, the nature of that workload, it’s got a lot of custom apps.  But it doesn’t mean our customers don’t want to take advantage of cloud capabilities as well.  So now you can have all of your custom workflow on-premises and still be able to tap into the Office Graph in a hybrid capability.  And that’s what Server is delivering.
As well as things like data loss prevention and e-discovery.  Fantastic release.  But it’s more than just on-premises, of course.  With Office 365 and SharePoint Online, we’re doing things like fundamentally bringing the Office Graph intelligence into things like our modern portal experience.  Improving skills search with the Graph, and even making better enterprise search holistically.
Of course, the other area here is OneDrive for Business.  We know we have to win.  We’re totally committed.  In recent months, we’ve made significant progress against all aspects, from the user experience to the IT controls.  Great new look, great updated Web experience.  And we’ve answered the vast majority of those IT requested controls.  But we’re not done.
In H2, we’re releasing the biggest update since the service was released originally.  And the core of that is rock-solid sync.  Yeah, let’s get some claps for that.  Auditing, reporting and DLP.
And, of course, just like we’re doing with Skype, we’re bringing that great, friendly consumer experience from OneDrive and bringing that into the OneDrive for Business experience.  You have a wonderful user experience as well as all those controls from enterprise capability.
Last, let’s get into business apps.  Now, as consumers, we’ve become accustomed to having tailored apps for every little task we’re trying to accomplish.  And that same expectation is now coming to the workplace, of course.  And that’s why Dynamics is increasingly offering solutions that are tailored for specific roles and specific professions.
And these apps are also evolving to be systems of intelligence.  And then Dynamics is delivering experiences that let you personalize the experience for your customers in CRM or run more efficient operations right through Dynamics ERP.
But it’s also about bringing those experiences in Dynamics together with Office 365.  So right within my Dynamics experience, I can do things like collaborate, file share and have seamless communications with Office 365.  And then even extending that to do Power BI with analytics.
And speaking of analytics, we’re actually now moving into a new area, organizational analytics.  This is about unlocking the insights about how you work individually, but more interestingly, how the organization works, how teams are collaborating or not collaborating.  Who are the key connectors in the organization?  How is communication flowing?
We’ve all had hypotheses about that, but now in Office 365, we have so much rich information, and you add machine learning and analytics on top of that, and the insights that you’ve never had before become present.  And this is a place where there’s incredible partner opportunity.  It’s a brand new market, frankly.  These are ideas and concepts about corporate culture that we were guessing about before, but now we actually have real insights into it.  And we’re very early in this technology area, but you can certainly expect a lot more from us here.
Now, speaking of which, it’s time to show you some of that.  So let’s take a look real quick.
So to show you this, this demo, I’m going to take the role of a sales leader in a 3-D printing company.  And I’m going to start my day here in Delve.  And I see all of the most relevant information to me.  Anything that’s trending around me based on my actions and those actions around me.
Now, powering Delve is the Office Graph and the Office Graph has all of the signals from my actions and the content from people from myself as well as all the people around me.  And that’s how it knows what’s most relevant to me right now.
And you see information from across Office 365.  But because we’ve made the Office Graph extensible, partners like yourselves and many others can integrate right into the Office Graph.  So you see I have information from Trello and Salesforce.com, so I have a holistic view of what information is most relevant and important.
And as I’m in Delve, I see that there are two sales teams I’m working with, here’s the Adventure Works team led by Richard, and he’s working on an RFP.  And Andrea here is working on another RFP.  Well, I hope they’re working together and sharing practices, but I don’t know.  In the past, I would have had to guess.  But now I can use Delve org analytics to find out a bit more about what’s happening.
So let me go into my org analytics view here.  And you see this is a preview of an experience coming a little later this year.  And you can see I have my personal information like my work-life balance or even how I’m spending my meeting time and how that compares to the company average.  A little bit like a health checker on that front.
But also I get information about my team and my company, what’s trending.  And here in my team map, I can actually get a bit more insight about the interactions happening.  So let me click in there.
And now you see my team and all these interactions.  And the thickness of the line is actually the intensity of the interactions, the frequency and intensity.  And I can see I’m connected with these folks and they’re connected here, but let me see exactly what’s going on.  I can just filter down.  In this case, I want to just see if those two sales teams are meeting and sharing best practices and I can apply that filter.
And, immediately, I see that, in fact, they’re not.  Actually, those sales teams are just relying on my team to connect, they’re not actually directly connected.  That’s a great new insight that I just got thanks to the new org analytics.
Let me go take some action on that.  I happen to have a pipeline review meeting coming later today.  And I have Andrea on.  So I’m just going to go ahead and add Richard too.
And you see here every meeting in Office 365 as we move forward automatically has the Skype link.  That means that voice call and that video call is literally one click away on every meeting I have.
All right, I got Richard added there.  This is great.  We’ll get together later today.  But, actually, my next step is to go actually meet with a customer right now.  Thanks to the integration between Cortana and CRM, I can actually just use Cortana to get ready for my upcoming sales appointments.
So here I see the different pipeline information coming from my CRM app.  I also see the meeting, the customers who are going to be there and the other deals going on.  Right here, integrated into Cortana that simply.
But I need to get moving.  So I’m going to grab my phone, my device that I use when I’m on the road.  And because, again, Cortana is everywhere I go, if I go to Cortana here as well, you see that same card information.  I see that CRM information rendering right here.  So whether I’m on my PC or on the go, I can get access to that information.
Well, I’m on the way to the meeting.  I’m going to make the most of my time, of course, so I’m going to triage a little e-mail.  I’m going to use the new Outlook mail app on my Windows Phone.  And it’s a gorgeous new app.  The beautiful modern UI.  We have my swipe gestures.  Can swipe that way to delete, or I can swipe this way to set a flag.
Now, I know that we all have our own unique ways to triage e-mail, that’s why those swipes are fully customizable.
People have been using e-mail on their phone for a long time, but they haven’t really been terribly productive.  Now with the new Outlook app, it really can be productive everywhere you go.
Now, I see that I have this e-mail from Ben here about this 3-D printing.  And I think it seems important that I probably should check this out before I go meet with the customer.  Want to know the latest and greatest.
So it looks like there’s a new prototype.  I’m going to go ahead and click that link and find out what this is all about.
Now, when that happens, it turns out that that link had been maliciously attacked and has been changed to be a bad link.  It happened after the point that it was sent.  So even though this e-mail was filtered on the way in, the hacker came in after the fact and updated the link.  It’s a sophisticated attack that’s happening more and more.
But thanks to the new advanced threat protection in Office 365, it blocked me, protected me at the moment I was clicking, not before, just then.
So if I go back, I can go through that Bing link at the bottom instead, and you see in this case it’s actually a legitimate link.  So I’m able to go out and do that.  So I was protected just as I needed it, and I’m able to keep getting my work done.
Thanks to threat protection, everything’s still intact.  My identity hasn’t been hacked.  So I can go through with my customer presentation.  And to do that, I’m actually going to use my PowerPoint right here on my phone so I can actually get all of my work done thanks to the new Office apps right here on the phone.
And it’s the beautiful PowerPoint Office experience that you’d expect.  In this case, I’m going to do my presentation.  Let me go into presentation mode.  I’ll flip over here.
And, again, as you see with our Office mobile apps, it’s got the rich graphics, it’s got animations and transitions, everything rendered beautifully.  I can trust there’s always that great look and feel.  And I have some great enhancements, too.  I can do things like maybe I want to zoom in or maybe I want to kind of touch and hold and I can get a laser pointer.  Oops, go back in there, sorry about that.
But I can also get my laser pointer, I can highlight some things here.  Or if maybe I want to do some inking, I can just go ahead and annotate on my phone too.  Grab my pen.  Call attention to this.
So even using just my phone, on a small device, I can have a really impactful presentation as well.
And now the presentation went great, so I’m ready to head back into the office.  But I want to let the team know that everything went well.  So I’m going to go into my — oops, let me go into my CRM app here, actually, right here.  Where I can get access to all of my pipeline information as well.  I can move from one stage to the next.  So anywhere I am, I can always stay in touch with my sales team so they know exactly what’s happening.  Again, integrated OneNote, so the whole team has access to exactly what’s happening step by step.  So here into my pipeline, and you can see across the top I have my different phases.  And I can just click to the next phase and the system’s been updated and so everyone knows that things must have gone well.  So I’m getting back to the office now.
All right.  Now, I’m going to head back in the office and have that meeting to review the sales pipeline.  And I’m going to have Ben join me here on stage in my in-room meeting, as well as some people virtually as well.  And, of course, I’m going to use the beautiful Surface Hub.
Now, first, about this device for a second, it’s a stunning 84-inch, 4K, ultra high-def, 120-hertz, multitouch device.  The biggest one on the market.  It’s got built-in high-def cameras, mics, speakers, CPU, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, literally, it’s got everything.  All I need is a power cord and I’m all set.
It’s designed from the ground up for collaboration, to unlock the power of the group.  And this is the conference room device that’s really going to get used because it’s so simple and it’s very cost-effective, too.
So to get started in our meeting, all I have to do is one-touch join.  And I’m right into my Skype video call, of course.  And it puts me into my digital whiteboard and it’s a OneNote notebook, so it’ll go with me wherever I am, I have my notebook.
Now, hey, guys, welcome to the meeting.  You see it’s a very natural video experience.  Everyone sees what’s happening.
So today for the agenda, I of course want to do the pipeline.  But I want to give feedback about that deck that I just presented, the customer had some feedback.
But because it’s actually a virtual whiteboard, I can change my mind.  While that feedback is kind of top of mind, I’m actually going to do that first, grab that here.  And I can move things around and have full flexibility, again, because it’s a digital experience.
So let’s go ahead and pull up that PowerPoint presentation so I can give you the feedback the customer had.  And you see it’s very simple for Ben to just project up, swipe that over so it’s full screen.  But it’s not just a projection.  It’s actually a two-way experience.  So if I swipe up here, you see it actually forwards on Ben’s Surface as well, and the same if he comes back, it goes both ways.
And the same for the inking experience, too.  So maybe, you know, the customer had some feedback about this, and maybe want to change that.  You see, it actually shows up on Ben’s Surface and he can do it back.  We call that “inkback” and “touchback” that two-way, dynamic experience.
Let’s go ahead and pull up that pipeline now.  Perfect.  And here is my Power BI dashboard, of course.  All of the information I need right here at my fingertips.
In this case, I want to just check out this product gross margin and see what’s going on whatever the 3-D printers.  And with Power BI, I can drill down to all levels that I want to get at the information and keep going farther and farther.  Get that here.  Oh, maybe not.  All right, maybe not.  There we go, all right.  All right.
Now, in this case, I have product gross margin and gross revenue.  What I really wish is I had the combination of those two charts, but I don’t.  But thanks to Power BI, I can actually do that so simply.  I just grab one and drop it right on top and Power BI will actually do the work to revisualize it, combining those two data sets.  In this case, a scatter plot that makes the data make more sense.
So now I’ve got the insight that I want and I can capture that right back to my OneNote notebook.  I can just grab here.  And it drops it right back in that OneNote notebook so everyone can collaborate together and we can share that back to OneNote as well.
And I can even annotate, of course, too.  So I can say, hey, you know, check this — oops, go get my ink.  Check this out.  And I can bring it here.  A really powerful experience.  Full digital and captured so everyone can have access to it after the meeting as well.
And when I’m done, all I have to do on this device is hit “I’m done.”  And I close it out.  And all of the information is wiped off there and it’s ready for the next meeting as well.  Thanks, Ben.  
Now, what I showed you is where we are today and what’s coming in the very near future.  But it’s amazing to see the number of innovations that came out over the past year.  Over 400 new capabilities to Office 365 alone in the past 12 months.
And that pace of innovation is not stopping.  The next wave moving forward as we look forward to the next 12 months, we have a whole set of Office client and servers coming, a huge partner opportunity around that alone.  But, additionally, we have Skype Cloud PBX, we have CRM Machine Learning for intelligence engagement.  So we’re using Azure Machine Learning to provide proactive experiences in CRM Online and things like cross-sell recommendations for sellers.  Tons of new innovations coming, tons of partner opportunity baked into that.
And we’re delivering productivity and we’re delivering business process experiences.  The future really is about now those come together.  When intelligent business processes power productivity, not hinder that.
If you go back this morning when I showed you that GigJam demo, hopefully that gives you a sense of the potential of how we can fundamentally change the way we work.  This is where business process meets productivity.
It’s an incredibly exciting time.  Thank you so much for your time and have a great week at WPC.  
  Let’s hear it again for American Authors.   What a great way to start the morning.  Come on!  
Well, welcome to day three of the Worldwide Partner Conference.  And to start the day I actually want to reflect back on a year ago in Washington, DC, on this same day starting this same keynote.  And I said to the audience then that in this mobile-first, cloud-first world our success was going to be achieved through a highly successful partner ecosystem.
And I went on to say that the ecosystem was going to evolve, that the business models inherent in it would change, but that there was a place for every one of you in this ecosystem.
Our position on that hasn’t changed at all, but the world is changing, and we have to change with it.
This is an industry transformation and Microsoft is going through it with you.  We’re committed to helping through this transformation and supporting all of you to go achieve that growth opportunity that’s ahead of us.
Now, on Monday, I introduced the four ways that we consistently invest in this partner ecosystem.  And the keynotes on Monday were more focused on the product and technology innovation.
This morning’s keynotes are going to be more focused on the other three pillars where we forge ahead to create markets, to win together, to win in the marketplace together, to go out and get that last mile of sales and marketing execution, and to make sure we’re enabling your business.
More specifically, there’s three topics we’re going to dive into today.  The first, whether your business is domestic or you sell across the world, this is a global business.  And events happening on the world stage impact you and they impact your customers.
And in this increasingly complex world there’s one constant that remains:  If people don’t trust the technology, they’re not going to use it.  And that’s never been more important than when our customers are evaluating their journey to the cloud.
We’re fortunate to have Brad Smith, our General Counsel and Executive Vice President for Legal and Corporate Affairs, here to talk about how Microsoft’s addressing this important topic and how together we can build a value proposition of trust to win in the mobile-first, cloud-first world.
The second topic’s oriented around how the cloud is creating business models disruption at an unprecedented scale.  Steve Guggenheimer, our Corporate Vice President for our DX organization, is going to talk about business model disruption, the opportunity for IP and how you can take your innovation to be successful in the market.
Then I’m going to come back up and I’m going to talk about essentially one question:  What are we seeing in the most successful partners in this transformation and how are we here to help.
And then the keynote I know we’ve all been waiting for, Kevin Turner, our Chief Operating Officer, is going to come up and talk about how we can achieve more together with an action plan for us to go compete to win.
So without any further ado, I want to ask you to join me in giving a warm welcome to Brad Smith, a first-time presenter at our Worldwide Partner Conference.  Come on up, Brad.  
  All right.  So the topic we’re going to cover now I’m really looking forward to covering with you, because candidly it is the most common question I get from so many of you as I travel and meet with you around the world.  And that question is, when you talk about transformation you’re seeing many partners realizing success in that transformation and what are the attributes of those successful partners?
And then I’m going to invite Pip Marlow, our managing director for Microsoft Australia, and Gavriella Schuster, our general manager for the Microsoft Partner Network, to tell you how we’re helping against the attributes I’m going to share with you.
Now to talk about a successful partner I’m a firm believer in starting with the data.  And with the help of IDC, we worked across our partner ecosystem and we kind of grouped the partner ecosystem into two buckets.  The first bucket was those partners doing more than 50 percent of their business in the cloud.  And the other bucket was those doing less than 50 percent of their business in the cloud.
And it showed some interesting data.  It showed that those doing more than 50 percent of their business in the cloud were acquiring new customers at 1.3 times, realizing revenue growth of 1.4 times, and profit growth of 1.5 times the rest of the industry.
And while that was interesting, we decided to take the analysis further.  We decided to look at a more forward-looking indicator which is valuation.  And that really showed another interesting data point.  Again, those partners with more than 50 percent of their business in the cloud were realizing a company valuation of 5 to 14 times EBITDA or earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, versus the rest of the industry at 2 to 4 times.
Now I shared this data with a few partners just over the last month or so and they said to me, five times EBITDA versus 2 to 4 is interesting, but 14 times, wow, what is driving that?  So we decided to look at the partners at the top end of the valuation curve and identify what they were doing.  And I want to share with you what we learned.
There were really four characteristics that stood out that were differentiated on a consistent level from the rest of the industry, and those were IP differentiation, digital marketing, how they had tuned their customer acquisition and retention strategies, and how they had adjusted their internal measurement.  And I want to drill down into each of these for just a few moments.
So let’s start with IP differentiation.  We see today’s successful partners building an annuity business that is based on multi-period or multi-year contracts.  But more importantly, this annuity business is rooted in their first-party IP.  Their own capability is a key component of the solution.  They’re developing an innovation culture.  They know that it sets them apart from their competitors.  And it’s a key driver of profitability.
Now the number of partners that we see building their own IP is steadily increasing.  They’re realizing new revenue streams out of this.  Now I want to also be clear that there are multiple ways to monetize your own IP.  It could be a SaaS extension that you package and sell as a subscription service.  It could be your IP integrated into a managed service.  It could be developed into repeatable methodologies that extend your project services work.
As I’ve traveled I’ve seen great examples of all of these through partners and I want to share one example of a partner in our ecosystem, and that’s Power Objects.  They’re a partner that has historically sold CRM Online to small businesses, but they decided to build add-ons that extended the value for their customer base.  And because these add-ons extended a product that was already flourishing in their portfolio, they were able to turn this new business into a multi-million dollar revenue stream within two years by packaging it as a subscription service that included the Microsoft license or entitlement, training, support, and any mixture of the 21 add-ons that they had created.  They called this package Power Success, and since introducing it they’ve grown their business 370 percent.
Now the last point I want to make about the value of building an IP-oriented business is related to how the public cloud enhances this opportunity.  Our industry has always rewarded companies that created unique IP that customers valued with higher than average margins.  But the public cloud has enabled these same companies to develop and distribute their applications and their IP even more efficiently and cost-effectively, and it’s made these solutions more discoverable to more customers than ever before.
So the bottom line is, if you’re establishing an annuity business with longer-term contracts, with more of your own first-party IP to extend the Microsoft Cloud Platform, these partners are realizing greater valuation.
So let’s talk about the second one.  The second one is in the area of digital marketing.  And when I say digital marketing, I’m talking about beyond SCO and SCM, I’m talking about establishing a digital profile.  I’m talking about using assets like social to build your business.  I’m talking about using reputation engines and peer reviews to establish your credibility.  And to understand why this is such a differentiator, it’s important to look at how customers have changed with the growth of cloud solutions.
First, we know the buyer is changing.  Now we all know that IT investments are not only coming from IT departments from a decision-making perspective.  As a matter of fact, IDC predicts by 2016 line of business executives will play a direct role in 80 percent of all net new IT investments.
The second area of change is how companies are finding solutions.  They’re more likely to search online and use peer review and reputation engines and do research before they’ve even been involved with a partner or vendor.
It’s for these reasons that it’s so important that your digital profile connects you to potential buyers that you don’t have a relationship with, whether it’s actually an existing customer or a new customer, or it’s one in your local geography or one in another part of the world that you could potentially do business in.
I want to share another example of a partner that has invested heavily in digital marketing, and that’s Palmetto Technology.  They realized back in 2010 that the old ways of marketing were not going to meet their needs for growing their cloud business, so they invested in digital marketing across multiple methodologies and multiple medias.
I want to talk about one in particular, though.  As part of their SCO strategy, they funneled their traffic into an Office 365 microsite that they had developed.  And when users went to this site, they could consume their own information around the product.  They could learn about customer success stories.  But they had an added benefit of being greeted by a Palmetto team member.  And that team member engaged the customer and tried to develop them into a prospect, and then routed that prospect into their lead and sales engine.  It was a great example of digital meeting live connection and ultimately fueling their sales funnel.  Within 12 months of introducing this strategy, they saw a 1,300 percent ROI on this digital marketing investment.
We see Palmetto Technologies as part of a growing group of digital savvy partners who recognize that this new way that customers are seeking solutions exposes them to more competitors, but at the same time expands their total addressable market exponentially.
Now, let’s move to customer acquisition and retention.  The ability to span multiple markets and exploit first-party IP through online scale is a forcing function to change how to go after your new customers.  You have to move customers from marketing or Web interest to capturing the lead to very quick, rapid, immediate connection to velocity through the sales funnel.  It has to be an integrated sales and marketing engine.
And a partner example I want to use now is CCB Technology.  They saw the opportunity with the introduction of a new managed service that was being delivered as a shared service.  And it gave them the opportunity to centralize their engineering resources.  And they decided to route their traffic through their marketing efforts to a virtual help desk that engaged their engineering resources to create a really positive trusted first touch.  And then those engineering resources provided a warm handoff to a centralized group of sellers who sold over the phone.
Since introducing this approach to selling their managed services their overall services business has grown in 18 months over 150 percent.  Now CCB technology views customer acquisition from a standpoint of connecting their marketing efforts to a centralized focus to span the markets they could pursue.  But, they’re also part of a group of partners that recognize that the greatest value in cloud economics is actually the lifetime customer value of the customers that you secure.  And that retention is critical and you have to retool your processes to ensure that you have a strategy around retention.  Every one of the partners in this category that we were evaluating had great retention programs, because once you’ve got them to the Web, or to the cloud you have to keep them and then you get an opportunity to up-sell and cross-sell, not only our solutions but that innovation pipeline that you’re creating.
So when you’ve transformed your product you’ve transformed your marketing and you’ve adjusted your customer acquisition and retention strategy, you have to look at your internal measurement.  And partners who have been successful have realigned these measurements to the future business that they’re trying to secure.  And I’ll touch on one thing in particular.  Changing the compensation models for sellers to support an annuity or recurring business from what might have been historically a one-time initial product or project sale is critical.
The initial sale in a subscription or managed service is sometimes less revenue, but it’s significantly more revenue over time.  If your leadership or your frontline sellers are not compensated for this opportunity, it’s quite likely your transformation could stall.  One of our partners Crayon shared with us how they felt it was critically important to incentivize their sellers on cloud services, which they wanted to be a growing part of their portfolio.  So they looked at their approach and went from a total quota-based model to a portfolio percentage growth model, and this really accomplished two things for them.
One it ensured that max earnings were achieved through the right mix of solutions that they were trying to sell.  But, second it ensured that they were putting a cloud incentive with their sellers every single month given the revenue recognition realities of a subscription model.  They also tuned their leadership team’s dashboard and by doing these two things it made an impact on their bottom line.  As a matter of fact, they saw three to four times increase in margins when they were moving their traditional business to cloud businesses.
So the bottom line is when you build first-party IP and extend Microsoft’s public cloud platform, when you establish a digital marketing strategy that exposes you to more customers and different buyers that you may not have a relationship with, when you’ve tuned your customer acquisition and retention strategy, and when you’ve built your internal measurement, you have a great opportunity for success and that’s what we saw as the differentiators in those that were at the highest end of that valuation curve.
So when you leave here I encourage you to start benchmarking yourself against those four things.  Determine what you think is best in class.  Assess where you think you are today, and build the plan that moves you to the standards of best in class.  Stay in touch with us, because we’re here to help.  And on that note I’m happy to announce that we’re offering a new tool to accelerate your transformation.  It’s called the Sure Step Profitability Benchmark tool, and it will allow you to self-assess what stage of the cloud transformation journey you’re at and point you to business practices that will help you at each stage of the journey.
This is available today on the MPN portal, and I encourage you to go take a look.  So I hope what I’ve shared today motivates you to think about the opportunity and the things you can do with your leadership team to make an impact in your business immediately.
So next we’re going to talk about how we’re going to help you every step of the way.  And to do that Pip Marlow is going to start by discussing how we’re building on your success at the local level.  But, first I want to share a short video that shares a couple of moments that we spent with the partners I just talked about.  It’s been great spending time with you.  I look forward to seeing you all at the partner celebration tonight so we can celebrate your achievements and enjoy the rest of the day.
Thank you.  
  Good morning, everyone.  I hope you’re all having an outstanding Partner Conference.  I’ve had the opportunity to talk with a number of ISVs over the last few days, and the energy is incredible.  I think probably the reason the energy is so incredible is because of the time we live in.
I want to pick up the conversation where Brad left off.  I thought Brad did a great job of bringing the global nature of the world we live in and how technology impacts that, in some cases it’s disruptive, into the next level.  In fact, he did it from such a unique angle I know that all of us at Microsoft enjoyed listening to him, and I hope you did as well.
On the topic of disruption I want to have a conversation around where we are as an industry and where we’re going.  I often end up in a conversation around is the pace of change in the world we live in, in this particular space, constant or is it increasing?  And I personally feel like it actually is increasing.
If you go back two decades, we were worried about processor speeds on devices, 286 to 386, 386 to 486 to Pentium to GPUs onboard.  And as we got all this processing power, then what could we do with it.  And then along comes digital media, right, and then storage becomes important, 5-1/4 inch disks, 3-1/2.  You remember the storage, the little blocks that we used to have that we stuck into them — I can’t remember the brand off the top of my head.  And now we just continue to move forward and storage continues to drive forward and the cost comes down.
And then you get to bandwidth, and of course wired line or fixed line, and then wireless, 2G, 3G, 4G, LTTE, et cetera.  And now as those all come together, they’re driving the pace of change that’s incredible, or enables incredible disruption across all of the industries.  There was a time when each of those technologies and the hardware they were associated with allowed for separate ecosystems.  There was a phone ecosystem.  There was a PC ecosystem.  There was a TV ecosystem.  Well, the boundaries between those ecosystems have come down.  They’re gone.
And what happens today is where people talked about convergence in terms of going to a single device, what we have is a convergence of technology that’s leading to an explosion of devices.  And in some cases, a collision of ecosystems or industries, or just overall disruption of every industry that’s out there today.
I think Jeff Immelt said it best relative to this conversation that at this point in time we’re all software companies.  We’re all ISVs.  And as we embrace that and go forward, we should think about how we disrupt ourselves as well as look for new opportunities in the space.  If you look out there today, all of our traditional partners have a new set of competitors or people coming into the space.  And there’s disruption in every industry.
In transportation, if you look at what Uber and Lift are doing relative to personal transportation, look at what’s going on around the movement of ships and containers.  If you go into travel, we used to think about Expedia and using the Web.  Now we think about Airbnb in terms of what it’s doing to the hotel side of things.
On finance, Intuit, Sage and others are reinventing themselves.  At the same time, Zero from New Zealand is coming in as a new competitor and a new player in this particular space.  Disruption is everywhere.  Healthcare, McKesson, GE, Cerner, all reinventing themselves.  At the same time, Fitbit, the Microsoft Band, other technologies are coming into the space.
So it’s in this particular area that we should talk a little bit about how can we help you with disruption in terms of thinking about this and in particular make sure that everybody is onboard for the change and the wave that’s coming.  I like to use ourselves as a starting point.  We’ve been through this a couple of cycles.  We’ve disrupted ourselves, we’ve been disrupted.
Office is a great example.  The first part of this conversation was taking a set of individual products, putting them together, changing the packaging, a little bit over time around the licensing models, and voila, a new change in this particular area.
And then over time we added Web technologies.  In the client-server era you add SharePoint, you add Exchange, you have a whole new model for Office.  You have a new opportunity to sell and change the dynamics.  And many of the partners in this room have helped us in this change and this disruption.
As we move forward, then the Web comes.  You add extensions, then you guys remember BPOS, Business Productivity Online Services, you go to hosting.  And now with Office 365 it’s completely reinvented for the new world, the new cloud and mobile world.  Fifty million users today, a new set of APIs for developers, a new opportunity to reinvent line-of-business applications and to begin over again.
Now that’s one example from our side.  I thought I would take a little bit more fun example for the rest of the conversation.  I would call it the Connected Cow Part 2.  For those of you that came to BUILD, my colleague Joseph Sirosh told the story about cows and machine learning, that essentially if you put a pedometer on a cow and watch how they walk and their movements, you can figure out how to make more cows.  And if you’re really good at it, how to make more boy cows versus girl cows or girl cows versus boy cows.
Now I don’t tell the story as well as Joseph, so I put a link up here to aka.msinternetofcows.  And I would say go look at that story for the technology underpinnings for disruption in this space.
Now what I want to do is talk about the second part of this story.  Which geography do you think produces the most milk per cow in the world?  I would scratch my head.  I might think Wisconsin and Cheeseheads if you’re an American, and you might think of Holland and the rolling grass plains, maybe somewhere out in Scotland or the U.K.  It turns out the No. 1 producer of milk per cow is Israel.  Now, congratulations, I heard a few claps out there.  Essentially they have 50 percent desert with only 125,000 cows is the No. 1 producer.
How is that possible?  Well, let’s build on the Joseph story and talk about the Internet of Cows.  I have to pause here.  I was going to call this slide barn in the cloud, but that was too cheesy, so I just didn’t go there.  So we’re just going to stick with Internet of Cows and stop there.
They are using now as an industry collectively a set of sensors on the cows in the country that track how much they move, rumination, health of the cow, temperature and several other parameters.  They feed it into the cloud, they use machine learning to track the cows, the health, and actually over time have created a system for creating the most sophisticated and essentially the most efficient cow, or dairy-producing cows in the world.  And it’s one thing to talk about it, but it turns out there’s an ISV that’s built a solution specific to this industry and I’m going to run a short video from SCR around the Healthy Cow 24.
I don’t think anything tells the story better than that video.  I really like the little stroller for the calving icon, the notion of pushing a calf around in the stroller.  Now you might think, OK, well, that technology is there.  This is solved there’s no other opportunities.  But, it turns out there’s lot of opportunities.  AfiMilk is another company in Israel that basically helps look at the milk as it’s being produced and processed and helps separate regular milk from coagulated milk.  Traditionally you take all the milk, you put it into one big container and you separate it afterwards.  Well, what happens is you have loss there and you’re not as efficient.  Doing it real-time, separating milk for drinking from milk used for cheese makes the system overall more efficient.  And that goes back into the system overall of how we get more milk per cow.
But, there’s another step beyond that.  There’s AKOL, which is the Agricultural Knowledge Online Group.  It’s essentially Israel’s dairy cloud.  About two-thirds of the farms in Israel participate and what happens is they share knowledge.  They use a common set of vets.  They share best practices.  They share learnings.  They work together with the regulators.  They work together with the healthcare or the vets, providers with suppliers, and help make the overall industry more efficient as a whole working together.
So across these three companies and others there’s incredible work going on.  And we’re really proud to work with them.  These companies use Azure on the back end.  They’re using SQL on the back end for the data.  They’re using machine learning tools that started with Joseph and the work he’s doing.  And collectively the industry is transforming.
I think it’s an incredible opportunity in terms of a case study for change of any given industry.  Now we see it everywhere.  I get to talk to partners big and small, new and existing, and at every junction, at every place it’s happening.  Music, Music is a small company in Florida that takes drum sticks, puts Bluetooth sensors in there, accelerometers and allows you to play drums using the PC as your front end.  You don’t need a full drum set.  Put a pair of headphones on, thankfully for children, and now you can play a full set of drums without having to have a full kit in front of you.  It’s great feedback.  It’s very disruptive.
Jet, if you thought about Amazon disrupting retail, how many years ago was it, Jet wants to use machine learning, again Azure on the back end, to change the dynamic and be disruptive again to online retail and use machine learning to better develop and better provide users with goods at more cost-effective prices.
Now in a cloud era there are many cloud providers.  Ignite is a good example of a partner who is working to provide a security management layer across storage, on-premises storage, cloud storage, cloud storage from Microsoft and cloud storage from other providers, and also connecting back into the experiences.  Think of Office 365 experience, think of something like DocuSign and providing a security and management layer that honestly can be disruptive across all the cloud providers.  So it’s a good story of how people are doing this type of work.  And we see it in other areas, the container work that Docker is doing, many other places.
Now, along with the startups that are out there, there’s a set of sort of growing or existing companies.  Salesforce, obviously with Salesforce we have a couple of areas we overlap, but at the same time we’re working hard to be disruptive together.  How do you take Office 365 as a SaaS service, right, No. 1 productivity service on the planet, connected with Salesforce.com, their CRM service, and bring those together to enable a new set of capabilities.  And then think about what we can do with Windows 10 and with Azure and other areas.
On the sports side Red Bull Racing, we worked with the pilot.  The pilot says instinctually I’ve done racing for a long time.  It turns out if you apply machine learning and a lot of time we were actually able to help the pilot shave literally seconds or a second off of the flight, which is all that matters.  And if you look across any sports league — NFL, NASCAR, NASCAR using Surface devices in the pits themselves to check the cars, wanting to use media to give viewers more angles, wanting to use the cloud to get better learning relative to the racecars, things that Formula 1 has done for a long time, Real Madrid — the sports industry is just sort of revolutionizing itself.
And I work with a set of ISVs that are right there hand-in-hand with them helping them reinvent themselves.  Obviously every traditional ISV, I mentioned some healthcare ones this morning, Schlumberger, how do you use the cloud and machine learning to think about oil and gas research start over in terms of saving some of the CAPEX that’s required to do the research today to find oil.
Siemens, Siemens literally when you think of rocket science and building rockets they’re using Surface Pro and Surface Hub to allow people to collaborate to use inking, to work together on the design of very sophisticated devices that we ultimately use.  So many, many, many others, I apologize to the ISVs I didn’t mention, because everybody in this room is essentially an ISV and is doing some work in here.
My question to you is, which part of this curve are you going to be on?  Are you being aggressive in thinking about reinventing yourself around driving disruption in your own company or in your own organization, or helping others do the same?  We’re here to help.
On the ISV and the developer side, we have a set of tools both for technology and education as well as for go to market and the business side.  Obviously, for this audience, starting with the Microsoft Partner Network is a great place to begin.
Below that is the Microsoft Developer Network.  On MSDN we provide links into all of our services, all of our training materials, sample code, where our events are, anything a developer would need to find the information they would want to get going.  If you want real-time videos for technology, Channel 9 is there.  If you want more of a structured learning environment, both our learning and certification partners that are here in the room, along with the Microsoft Virtual Academy, are there.  If you need help, if you’re working on something, the Microsoft Most Valuable Partners are in the community working to help provide feedback against all of the technologies we build.  So there’s a plethora of tools for your developers and for the ISVs in the room.
Now, when it comes to the business side, we want to find and work with you.  We will be at events.  We host our own, we show up at others.  The next show, I’m going to tell you — the next thing we’ll do is we will work with you on ideation sessions.  So if you want to come in and sort of sit down and think about how you reimagine your business or where you’re going, we’ll start with the conversation about what technology offers, move to an architecture design session.  From there, if it’s appropriate, we’ll run a hack session.  We’ll sit side-by-side and code with you.  We have places to do this around the world.  We use our Innovation Centers, which are in more than 100 countries, to do this.
Our Microsoft Ventures team is working with accelerators and using our own accelerators to help startups get going.  We have programs for startups like BizSpark.  And then last, but not least, the hardest part of the final piece, how do you use the marketplaces and go to market to bring the ISVs together with the partners in this room together with customers to ultimately help people find the solutions that are most important to them, and help them as they move their journey forward.
And that’s the last step of the puzzle that we’re investing an incredible energy on this year.  We won’t be perfect on Day 1, but that last mile step, the combination of marketplaces across Azure and Office and Windows, and really for business, for consumers, for education and then the tools to go with it are what we’re working on to bring all the pieces together.
I’m going to use my final story on a company called Unit4.  Unit4 is an ISV in Europe, very successful in the ERP space.  Thousands of large enterprise customers, but not everybody knows them.  We met with them for an ideation session about a year ago.  And they said, gosh, we’re at a point now where we have to think about how we reinvent our business.  We know we want to go to the cloud.  We know we want to take advantage of it.  And we went from ideation session to a hackfest, to working together, and they are now in the process of building and delivering a completely reinvented solution.
In this particular case many of us think about or have heard about the quote self-driving car.  You have a large number of sensors in a car.  You feed the data back into the cloud.  You use machine learning to help you and you help automate that car.
Unit4 is working on creating self-driving ERP.  Take all the information from Windows devices, from Office 365, feed it to the cloud, use machine learning to help you, ultimately make ERP more automated and more self-driven, essentially, from their work.  So take a picture of a receipt, while you’re here at Worldwide Partner Conference, have it go up into the cloud, be parsed, automatically feed into the expense report.  If you forget a receipt, or you’re missing something, have the system tell you automatically.  So how do you use all the technologies to drive this forward?
And the best part of this particular story is I met with Unit4 while I was here.  Their CMO is here, their chief technology officer, and they want that last mile.  What they’re actually looking for beyond just working with us on the technology to enable self-driven ERP is a set of partners to help them bring that to market.  So there’s a set of ISVs that are looking for you for how do we partner going forward to bring solutions to market?  Unit4 is here.  They’re looking for folks in this audience for North America, for other parts of the world, to help them with that mile step, which is about closing the gap for them in terms of delivering their solution to customers.
So with that I ask you, how can we be disruptive together?  How can we help you?  Whether it’s on the technology side or the business side, whether it’s building solutions, whether it’s doing the go to market work, we’re here to help.  We have folks all around the world.  We want to work with the ISVs.  We want to help everyone who is an ISV or becoming one.  We want to help you on both sides of this.
If you have any questions, ask Steve Guggs.  And with that I wish you a great conference and have a good time.
  A bend in the road is not the end of the road unless you fail to make the turn.  I really love that quote.  And for me it talks about two things. The first is it’s not about the destination, but it’s how you navigate your way to where you’re going.  And the second, it’s about your ability to take the wheel in your own hands to be masters of your own destiny.  But in some ways I guess I don’t need to tell you, the people in this room, how important that is, because this ecosystem has been transforming for as long as I’ve been in it.
And, in fact, I joined Microsoft 20 years ago this year in Australia, and I joined in your heartland as a partner account manager.  And at that time in Australia, we had a great partner, their name Anabelle Bits.  And Anabelle Bits was a system builder.  Their value proposition: Customize desktops built at speed for the local market.  But Anabelle Bits, like many system builders, they were disrupted.  For them it came in the form of the laptop.
Now this disruption, it could have been the beginning of the end, but it wasn’t.  It was actually the beginning of a great partnership with Microsoft that has spanned my 20 years at the company.  And Anabelle Bits evolved.  They moved from building PCs to delivering services to their customers.  And now they’ve continued to evolve.  They’re delivering data center solutions and selling Surface devices to some of the largest customers in Australia.  And I personally love being part of Ken and Marie’s journey as they’ve evolved and created what’s next in their organization.
Now there’s lots of stories like that, stories of disruption, and it’s certainly been a common thread throughout these last three days.  And you know lots of those stories.  They’re in your companies.  They’re in the companies around you.  But the commitment that we’re making, firstly, across Microsoft and in the field is that you’re not alone in that change and in that disruption.  In fact, I’m standing here today representing 3,000 Microsoft employees in the field whose day-to-day job is supporting you and helping you in that transformation, and thousands of other employees who care about making sure we have a thriving ecosystem to take care of our modern customer.
Now I started by taking you back in time 20 years.  I want you to fast-forward and join me in 2008.  Brad Rappell, a great Australian partner in the audience here somewhere today, and a serial entrepreneur.  They built their business, Productive, on SharePoint and infrastructure solutions.  They were doing a great job.  But in 2008, at this very conference in Houston, Brad had a defining moment.  He came to keynotes a lot like this, and he saw that there was a paradigm change.
And in this new world cloud would disrupt how innovation was being delivered to his customers.  So he went back home to the shores of Australia and he made a very bold decision.  Brad disrupted himself, and despite investing heavily for years in Productive, he created a new organization called InverseCurve born around the BPOS opportunity.  And over time that grew, and they became one of our most successful Office 365 partners selling tens of thousands of seats to hundreds of organizations across Australia.
But Brad, like all great entrepreneurs, had one eye on the road ahead, and he realized that in the world of the modern customer just transacting in Office 365 would not be enough to differentiate himself.  So he came to the local Microsoft team for a little bit of help.  And together we went on a journey of learning and discovery.  We ran the partner profitability workshops with him, and he would say that it was eye-opening, so much so that he created a new business model and a new company called CloudFirst, where they’ve created some unique IP, IP that was focused on the franchise market and that they could replicate.  And they built that IP on Office 365 and they are delivering it on the CSP program.
At the heart of this transformation for Brad, which he says Microsoft was with him every step of the way, was especially of value to his customers, but partnering with the local team to run those workshops to challenge himself on what’s next.  And I want to challenge every partner in this room to engage their local teams on those workshops.  I’ve had some people say, I don’t know that they’re for me.  We don’t need them.  But there are so many stories of partners large and small in Australia who have used these workshops to transform how they do business.
But it’s not the only way to engage your local team.  I want to tell you the story of InfoMedics, another great partner.  But before I do, you need to know a little bit about the world that they operate in.  So Australia, world’s largest island, almost as big geographically as the U.S., but with a population more the size of Texas.  And in our homeland, we have a very distributed healthcare system and many of the workers in there are still paper-based and desk-bound.
InfoMedics created some amazing IP, IP that allowed them to digitize patient records, which meant healthcare workers, doctors, nurses could access the information that mattered most to them from anywhere.  But to reach their customers in this distributed world, they had to disrupt their marketing; they had to go from the old world to the new to reach and talk to them.
So in partnership with their local team, they did just that.  The team helped them access the incredible resources that you’ve heard Phil and others talk about, the modern marketing materials, tutorials, workshops, online content.  And they created a new digital footprint, a digital go-to-market for their customers.  And then in working with their local team they went one step further and they created an online TCO assessment tool, which allowed them to reach new audiences and talk to the business decision-makers outside of IT, and you just heard from Phil how important that is.  It’s a great example of the magic, the magic that can happen when you tap into our global resources and partner with the local team.
I’ve told you three stories today.  I took you back in time 20 years and talk about Anabelle Bits; I talked about the serial reinvention that Brad and the team at CloudFirst have gone through and the transformative world of digital marketing’s InfoMedics.  Each of these partners is on the path to navigate their own bend in the road, and they’re working with us globally and locally to do just that.  And while the stories are all different, they also have some commonalities.
The first for me is they all put the customer at the center, looking to add value to the modern customer, and helping every business and every person on this planet achieve more is at the center for us and needs to be at the center for you, too.
The second is the need for leadership.  You’ve heard a lot about disruption in this conference.  It takes great leadership and courage to disrupt yourself, because what got you here may not take you to where you want to go.  And that is an important part in your role in leading that change.
And third, and certainly not least, is they all came down to a great partnership.  And you heard Satya say it on day one and you’ve heard it from Phil over this conference: Partners are what make us at Microsoft unique.  And we are going to continue to have a significant investment in the people and the programs that support you in doing what you’re doing, both globally and in the field, because at Microsoft we think we can do more than just navigate the bends in the road with you.  We think that together we can own tomorrow.
Thank you.  
  Increasing your profitability and enabling your market acceleration is my job.  I have the best job at Microsoft, because not only are you at the center of the work that I do but you are the hero of my story.
Today, I want to share with you three areas that we’re investing to increase your market value, to amplify your marketing impact, and to grow your market influence.  Let’s start with your people.  It goes without saying that your people are one of your greatest assets.  And what better way to increase your market value than to invest in the skills and capability of your people through training?
But we share in your challenge that it’s hard to keep up with the fast pace of technology change today.  And we know we need to reimagine our approach to help you.  This year you’ll see us innovating in four areas, training, certification, exam delivery, and performance tracking.  Microsoft will consolidate all partner training into the Microsoft Virtual Academy, and we’ll go where your people go to learn.  MOOC, or Massive Open Online Courses, are a way for us to provide hands-on experiential training at scale for your people.
We recognize that the process for certification doesn’t sit with the agile, readiness model of today.  So we’re moving to a continuous education approach through skills badging.  That’s a lightweight, low friction way to earn credentials, and bring your people along at earlier, more tangible milestones.  And we want to save you time.  So we’re expanding the availability of online exam proctoring so that your people can take the exams from their own home in their bunny slippers and pajamas if they want, or in the office without traveling miles out of their way to a testing center.
And we also want you spend more time with your customer and less time on tracking and administration.  So I’ve gotten this request from many of you all year, we are eliminating the requirements to track unique MCPs per competency. I’m glad you like that — and the tracking of sales assessments, so that we can focus more on the outcomes through your performance, which means I need to give you better ways to track your own performance.
Through the online dashboards, like John started to show you on Monday, available at the MPN portal you can track your own performance at a glance, and you can track your customers’ cloud usage and consumption at a glance as well.  To really accelerate your potential, we’re continuing our partnership with SkyKick to get you up and running on Office 365 for your own internal use quickly.
We’re also expanding the number of Azure service credits that we provide to you and giving you access to Visual Studio Enterprise Edition, the top level edition.    I’m glad you like that, too.
And through our ISV hub at the MPN portal, we’ll help you build your application, bring your application to market, and build your business in the cloud.  These are just some of the many ways that we’re investing to help you get in, get out, and get on with your business.
The second area that we’re investing is to amplify your marketing impact and customer connection.  Many of you have less than 10 people in marketing.  That means you have to make every ounce of marketing effort really count.  And as Phil said, to meet the modern customer where they are, you need more impactful digital marketing.  So we partnered with IDC to identify best practices in digital marketing from some of you, our best cloud partners, and we package that into prescriptive guidance to increase the capability of your marketers.
And we’ve curated a set of digital marketing services through DigitalStride that will help you with your search engine optimization, optimizing your online presence and pinpoint profile.  And we’ll also give you Bing service credits to do search engine marketing.    Thank you.
Now we’re going to innovate in our own digital marketing, too, because we want to provide you lots of air cover and drive a lot of customer demand.  So we’ll have product marketing campaigns.  We’ll have industry campaigns and vertical campaigns.  And we’re even going to do connected sales and marketing campaigns to get new buyers like CMOs.
But I know, I’ve heard from you that is way too complicated for your limited marketing resources to navigate and track and participate in.  So we’re taking a completely different approach this year, and we’re simplifying our marketing so that we are selecting one broad-based customer marketing campaign that we’re doing to ask you to participate with us.
It’s focused on helping customers modernize their business and it’s called Modern Biz.  This campaign is anchored on four customer scenarios that are cross-product and solution-oriented, targeted at helping our customers grow their business and helping you to maximize each socket that you sell and deploy.
How do I know that?  Because we actually did research with 1,200 of you leading in the cloud to identify the partner profitability scenarios inside those four customer scenarios, and we’ve identified how we can help you maximize your top-line revenue, minimize your cost of goods sold, and grow your shareholder value.  So that’s — partner profitability guidance is also available at the MPN portal.
And you are the headline story of our own customer marketing.  We’re marketing you, the partners, to our customers through partner stories.  These are customer stories where the partner is the hero of the story.  And we’ve already seen strong success.  In our very first month we drove over 24,000 views, and in the campaign we used to market it over a million impressions.  And we’ve only just begun.
We’ve published 15 stories.  We have 100 more in the queue.  And we’re going to continue to find, build and publish new ones throughout the year.  So if you have a story you’d like us to tell, let us know at the MPN portal.  And so while we market and syndicate these stories through paid and social media, you can watch the 15 we already published at the MPN portal.
The third area that we’re investing is to grow your market influence and presence.  We believe a lynchpin to your success is in partnering with each other.  After all, you are the most powerful ecosystem in the industry.  The cloud enables more global reach and collaboration than ever before.  Partnering with each other helps you expand your reach, expand your services capabilities, and build a channel within our Microsoft channel.  This can help you increase your customer satisfaction, increase your customer lifetime value, and reduce your customer churn.
Now you may be thinking, that’s interesting but not for me.  Consider this, as both Phil and Steve told you, in this competitive market, you need to stand out.  You need a unique value proposition and differentiation, potentially you need IP.  That all says specialization.  You can’t do it all.
But your customers still want you to be their strategic IP advisor, their one-stop shop.  I’m telling you, you can do it all by partnering with each other.  It enables you to extend your services offerings in advance of your own practice investments.  And we’re investing to help you find and connect with partners who have complementary skills, solutions and IP so that you can go to market faster with higher efficiency and greater profitability.
One such investment is with a partnership we did with Dynasource.  They enable dynamic sourcing, not only can they help you complete the offerings you present to your customers, but they can help you to increase your own staff utilization.  Getting to 100 percent staff utilization is one of the best ways that we can help increase your profitability.  So we’re in a pilot with Dynasource over the next six months in Western Europe.  So check it out at the MPN portal.
We also want to help you build your own unique IP.  So we’re investing in a partnership with DevDraft.  They help you review and assess the capabilities and the work of qualified developers and then you have the opportunity to participate in the draft like you were a big league sports franchise and draft them into your organization.
And through our many communities like the IAMCP, the Women in Technology,the SMB Pals, and the ISV Networking Community among many others that we sponsor we’ll help you find and connect with other partners all around the world.  The example my friends at Insightly that you saw before I came on the stage, an ISV that does an O365 add-in for small-business CRM reached out to four other ISVs with complementary O365 add-ins and together they’re going to market that SMB suite.
That will enable them to meet a unique customer need to grow all of their businesses and to multiply the impact of their individual marketing.  You can talk to them.  They’re standing by at the end of the show, at the smart keep booth.
And before I leave the stage there’s one other successful partner-to-partner story I’d like to share with you.  It’s through our 2015 SharePoint ISV partner of the year Nintex.    So please join me in welcoming Brett Campbell the co-founder of Nintex to share more of their story.  
Welcome.
  Thanks, Gavriella, how are you?
  Good.
So do you want to share with everybody a little bit about Nintex and your O365 solution?
  Of course, you know I love talking about Nintex.  Nintex is traditionally referred to by Microsoft as an ISV or a products company built on the Microsoft stack.  We’ve been transforming our business to the cloud services company and that journey started around four years ago.  Today we deliver a low code workflow automation platform in the Microsoft cloud, on-premise with our customers, or a combination of both.  We support over 22 languages across 90 countries and we have 8 million users from our 5,000 customers worldwide.  Our cloud solution enables also 1,000 of our partners to resell and deliver a drag-and-drop productivity platform with mobile business apps for companies betting on Office 365.
  Well it’s clear to see why you’re our SharePoint ISV partner of the year.  What’s your growth been like over the last few years?
  The business has ramped really quickly.  We introduced our Office 365 platform around two years ago and we’re seeing significant levels of maturity now, including KPIs like Phil was talking about and metrics to suit a cloud services company.  We never had that before.  And in that timeframe we’ve extended our solution in conjunction with Office 365 and how that’s matured as a service.
And in that same timeframe we’ve increased, or we’ve grown our revenue 30 percent year-on-year, maintained high profitability and we’ve also grown our own partner network by 70 percent just last year.  Partners are helping our business grow and they have a lot to do with our success.
  That’s very impressive growth and it’s great to see that you’re scaling through a thriving channel partner ecosystem.  How did you go about recruiting those 1,000 partners that you mentioned earlier?
  As you know we were a SharePoint consulting business in Australia when we first built Nintex, so we knew a lot about the region and the partners in that region.  We were excited about our global opportunity to grow a new channel inside your channel.  One of our main goals was to transform those consulting competitors locally to Nintex channel partners.  After we had done that we knew what to look for in a successful partner.  We then used Microsoft and some tools to help us locate those partners.  Pinpoint was the primary mechanism for discovery, and then we layered our partner profile of the successful partners on top to drive the right conversations.
  So you’re a canonical example of building a partnership within our Microsoft channel.  So how do you use events like WPC to continue to network?
  This is my 14th WPC.  I remember when it was Fusion.  So the Worldwide Partner Conference for us is the most important partner event for the year.  We’re a partner-centric business and we also use our partners to enable and celebrate with them this year.  So what we do is we align with your fiscal year, because that’s what Nintex does, and it’s a great time to kick off the business for our top partners.
We had our partner pre-day, where we had some great Microsoft speakers.  We also had or Nintex party on Monday night where we celebrated our partner success and recognized some award winners.  We also had 70 people here today from Nintex doing partner-to-partner activity.  This is a networking gold mine for us and for all partners out there.
  Wow, 14 years, that’s as many as we’ve had.  And it’s great to see that after all that time you still find it to be in that working gold mine.  Hopefully all of you are finding the same thing here this week.
So, Brett, you and I we’ve been doing a little piloting ourselves to see how we could market our mutual partners and help you continue to grow your channel.  Do you want to share a little bit about our Pinpoint pilot?
  Definitely.  We used Pinpoint historically to locate partners that we now partner with.  So this week we’ve also launched our new partner portal, as you can see on the screen there, and that’s giving our partners access to tools and resources to help themselves market and close business with Nintex.  Now we’ve also extended that to the Pinpoint application, as well, so our partners now can find each other, our customers can find our partners, all by the Pinpoint API.  It’s really exciting and it’s going to allow us to get our customers to the right partner to have the right business discussions.
  You know, this pilot is really exciting to me, as well, because while we skin and syndicate Pinpoint through all our Microsoft properties already, like Dynamics, and Azure, and Windows, and all that, this isn’t the first time that we’ve syndicated Pinpoint externally.  And I really want to figure out how I can market our partners’ business everywhere and I think there is some real potential here.  So I just have to figure out how I can scale what we’ve done to help all of our partners build a channel like you have.
  We’re happy to share our experiences with everybody here today.  They can come and see us at our booth and the partner team there, and even talk to me personally.  It’s been a great evolution of Pinpoint and we’re so excited to be involved.
  Well, it’s a great offer; you should all take him up on that, because he’s hard to get a hold of otherwise.
My longer-term aspirations are actually even bigger than that.  I want to figure out how I can take our many multiples of investments that Microsoft makes in building and supporting our partner ecosystem and our partner programs to extend that infrastructure to all of you to help you decrease your costs in partnering with each other and marketing to your customers and in scaling up.
So, Brett, thank you so much for sharing your story and thanks for your partnership.
  Thanks, Gav, see you.
  We go to work each and every day with you as the hero of our story in everything we do, in our planning, in our reimagining and in our innovating.  Simply put, we’re here to help you increase your value, decrease your cost, and make it easier to do business with us.  This is the promise we make in our partnership with you.  This is our commitment to you.
Thank you.
  Welcome and thank you for coming.  At Microsoft our mission is to empower every person and organization on the planet to achieve more.  That mission is grounded in our worldview of what we see today, but also what we strive for with our partners in the future.
And when we talk about a mobile-first, cloud-first world, we don’t just talk about the mobility of the device, we talk about the mobility of the experience.  That’s the mobility of the things that matter to you most wherever you are and the ability to get access to those in a secure, reliable and incredibly rich way.
And the transformation that we are driving at Microsoft through both our technology as well as our business models is to enable our customers, our partners, and Microsoft to be successful through that mission.
Our strategy is clear, and our strategy is to build the best-in-class platforms and productivity services for this mobile-first, cloud-first world.
And when we think about how we realize that strategy, for us it’s about our three core ambitions.  We don’t believe that anybody else can deliver against these ambitions in such an interconnected, impactful and seamless way.  And that’s why we’re very proud with our partners, our customers, with IT and developers to bring these three together as part of our core strategy that we will deliver.
The opportunity is huge.  Devices are pivotal in every part of those ambitions.  And it’s this opportunity that we build our partnerships with the people and the devices you’ll see in the room today.
Whether you cut the data as the total number of devices PCs and tablets we’ll see this year, 509 million, whether you cut the data of how many Windows users we already have, 1.5 billion, we look at the future potential we have to help people with those older devices, over 600 million over four years old, or the increase in the number of services consumed on the devices, as we think about our partnerships and how we’re investing in the future across those ambitions and our technologies, you can only get excited about imagining the experiences customers and businesses can have, and the sheer potential of this market size.
The market opportunity is built on Windows 10.  And these are the four areas of value that customers are most excited about in Windows 10, and frankly what’s most different about Windows 10.
The first thing, it’s familiar and up to date.  I’m sure you all love the new interface with some familiar areas.  And also what’s different in 10 is how this operating system will stay up to date.  This is an operating system that will continue to add value through its lifecycle.  As new capabilities are invented, they will come in through these regular updates, rather than the previous model.  And that means the device will get better through its lifecycle.
Safety and security is something that we all demand from our technology today, and there is no change with our continued commitment with Windows 10 to that.  In fact, it gets even better in Windows 10 as both a consumer that cares about you and your life and your family online, or whether you’re a business with your most precious corporate assets at the very farthest reaches of your mobile network.
When we think about our enterprise-class biometric platform, with a feature such as Windows Hello, which gives you enterprise-grade face unlock for your PC, you really start to see the investment you can have in the technology.  And whether it’s something as simple as no more passwords, or whether it’s something as serious as enterprise grade authentication Windows 10 provides that.
Being more personal and productive again is something that we just get delighted by in our technology.  And Cortana is bringing that to you in an incredible way in terms of how we can interact, and you’ll see more from that later, in new and simple ways with our technology.
And with our single application platform now covering our devices from phones through to phablets, through to tablets, through to PCs, through to all-in-ones, through to desktops, through the large format, and even new, more innovative devices like HoloLens, it’s a single application across all of the device experiences in your life.  And that again brings together the power of the Windows 10 platform.
We have such great momentum already.  And so thank you for all of you who are part of these numbers.  We have 75 million devices already running Windows 10 in the first month, 90,000 individual device models running Windows 10, thanks to the incredible engineering and partnership we have with our OEM and our device partners, from the components all the way through.  This is how we run this new operating system.
You know, there’s a couple of fun facts here, 122 years of Xbox streamed onto PCs.  Now, this is a new capability in Windows 10, and that’s the ability to play Xbox and stream it onto a PC.
And another fun fact that I love to talk about here is since Windows 10’s launch, we’ve actually had 10 million achievements unlocked within Xbox games.
And then finally, in 192 countries Windows 10 is running with customers using it.
And this is just in the first month; it will just get better from here.
So without any further ado, it’s my pleasure to introduce Bryan and Windows 10.  Bryan?
  Hey, thanks, Nick!
How you all doing this afternoon?  Whoa, you excited to be here?    All right, a couple folks in the front.
Well, hey, I’m Bryan, and I’m going to walk you through some Windows 10 today.
Right off the bat, we knew we wanted to make Windows 10 the most familiar experience that our users could find possible.  You know, no matter what version of Windows you’re coming from, when you turn on your PC, you see a desktop.  When you click Start, you see a menu.  These are things that we know make our users feel familiar.  They’re already an expert from the start as soon as they get Windows 10.
Some other cool stuff, we know our Windows 7 lovers love the taskbar and our jump lists.  So if you right-click on anything on your taskbar there, we have jump lists.  We brought those back to Windows 10.
Now, more in this menu.  Your most frequently used things are right there.  So the apps that I interact with the most, they’re right there for me to get to; more idea of that personal there.
Recently added apps are here, so I’ll engage with those more frequently, as well as some cool little adjustments here.  Power and settings are right next to that Start button on the menu, so you don’t have to travel a lot of distance to get to them.  You can also customize specific folders to live in this area to get to them quickly.
But one of my personal favorites is this little All Apps section — I love it — one section to look and see all of the apps on my PC.
And beyond that, we took it even further and we added jump lists.  So I can click one time on a letter and jump to any part of the alphabet to get to my apps that start with that letter.  So again no matter what version of Windows you’re coming from, it’s very familiar.
But of course we kept a lot of the good love from Windows 8.  We have the Live Tiles right here, personal and up-to-date information on the fly, giving me all the stats about things that I care about, whether it’s my calendar, my mail.  You know, I don’t have to actually open these apps to see the important information that I care about, it’s all right there, and you can customize it in all the ways you want to.
You know, some other cool stuff, you can scale this menu.  If you want to make it tall and skinny like I long to be one day, you can do that.  So it’s up to you.  You can personalize this the way that you want to.
Another area that we did a lot of work to make things more familiar is how our users interact with apps.  I’m going to open one here.  This is our mail app that comes free and included with Windows.  And this is a Universal App, to Nick’s point.  This platform is huge.  The Universal Windows Platform basically enables developers to take advantage of one universal API, to write code and apps one time, and enable them to scale beautifully across any screen size, from a phone to a tablet, two-in-one, all the way up to giant screens.  The app doesn’t actually care; it scales great.  We even have released SDKs to enable platform bridges where you can leverage your existing code from other platforms to make a great Universal App, with very little work.
And one thing that’s awesome about this, you know, our app, it launched full screen but I can just pull this down and I can run it in a window.  So I can treat this the way I’ve always treated any window that I’ve ever used while using Windows.
Some other cool stuff is to take a look at how these scale.  You notice as I scale this, the app actually changes and reorgs its entire UI to be more conducive to whatever layout I want.  So again that’s the power of those Universal Apps that are acting there.
Now, out in the audience, make some noise if you use Alt-Tab today.  Who uses Alt-Tab?   A lot of folks.  It’s a great feature.  We found out that a very small percentage of our users were using Alt-Tab.  I talked to my mom, she’s not a power user, she doesn’t use Alt-Tab.  So we really did a lot of work to democratize those kind of productivity features and make them available to everyone.
Now we have a task view button.  With one click you can see everything running.  It’s right on the taskbar, one click, there’s everything that’s running right there.
And this is also the gateway to my new personal favorite feature in Windows 10, the addition of multiple desktops.  So you can create additional spaces to do the work and streamline your workflow in a way that makes sense for you, because again we want you to work the way you want to work.
So the whole time I’ve been doing this demo, I’ve actually had two other desktops running.  I’m going to cycle through those there to show you.  Here’s one with some Office there.  There’s another with my kind of personal fun stuff.  My friend Peter is doing a keynote in another part of the world right now, so I got to see that there.  My Xbox app.  So this is a really cool thing that you can actually streamline your work this way.
Now, what’s really unique about multiple desktops on Windows 10 is when you combine them with the additions we’ve made to the Snap feature.  Who loves Snap today?  Who uses Snap in Windows?  I see a lot of hands; good.
Well, we took it even further.  If I Snap one window, we have Snap assist that’s now engaging and saying, hey, you snapped one, you probably want to snap another one.  OK, what do you want to do?  With one click I can easily fill up the remaining space.
But I can take that even further.  I can Snap four windows if I want to.  This becomes especially useful on your larger screens.
And here’s the cool thing.  It took me a couple clicks to do that, but guess what, I don’t have to break those windows when I want to go do something else, because I can swap to my other desktop where I have stuff running.  So again a lot of work done to empower productivity, and it’s only going to get better.
One thing I want to call out, we have just over 7 million Windows Insiders, folks that have been with us, enthusiasts from the beginning testing our builds, giving us ideas.  And, you know, we’re going to keep acting on that feedback.
One simple thing I’ll call out here is the ability to take one app and move it to another desktop.  That was feedback we got from our Windows Insider program.  They said, hey, we want to do that.  Cool, we built it.
We also did a lot of work with how the taskbar works and what it shows you across these desktops.  You can filter it to how you like.  That’s feedback from our Insiders, and we’re going to continue to act on that feedback, make Windows better, and you’ll get those updates as part of Windows as a Service.  So I’m superexcited about that.
What do you guys think so far?    All right, I’m glad!
Now, the next thing I want to talk about is this idea of Continuum.  Continuum is the idea that the best device in the world is the one that you have with you right now.  And as you know, we’re investing heavily in two-in-ones, not only in the variety of awesome hardware form factors that are being built, but as well as how Windows flexes between the different use cases of a tablet or a laptop.  OK, and I want to kind of demonstrate that to you now.
Here I have my desktop with a couple things running here.  And you’ll notice I’m kind of in a desktop-y look and feel right now, mouse and keyboard friendly.  You can see I have my windows cascaded here.
But this is a two-in-one device.  So imagine you fold it in half, you take off the keyboard, whatever cool neat way you make the switch.  I’m going to enter tablet mode right now with the Action Center.
And when I’m in tablet mode now, a couple interesting things happen.  No. 1, my apps are all full screen as I’m likely going to want to use them in a tablet environment.
No. 2, my edge gestures become very useful.  I can swipe from the left to bring up that same task view that I showed you earlier.  Or I can swipe from the right to bring up the Action Center.  This is the new Action Center.  If you haven’t seen it yet, if you held this next to the Action Center on a Windows Phone, it looks just the same.  I can take action on different notifications.  Ooh, Bill Gates sent me a picture here.  There’s no way I just set that up for the demo.  It’s fireworks.  So pretty cool stuff there, like Wi-Fi, everything you want to do.  So those edge gestures are very useful in tablet mode.
And my Start is now full screen, because again in a tablet environment I probably want to use it that way.
Some other things I want to call out are the way that you interact with Snapping.  You know, if you were in touch before, if you wanted to snap windows and moved them around, you might have had to go and try to touch just the top of the window.  When you’re in tablet mode now, that becomes supereasy.  I can swipe from the top and snap something to the side and choose the mail app.
And let me show you something neat.  I called out the Universal App difference there.  Look, if I scale this, look how these apps again, they’re changing their identity to run in the size that I want.  So now I can use that mail app to like delete, delete.  Ooh, Terry, I’d better flag that for later.  You know, and I can work the way that I want in this touch environment.
And when I’m done — that’s my son Max, I can customize my Outlook that way — I’ll exit tablet mode and you can see once I do that, those apps are back on my desktop in a mouse and keyboard friendly orientation.
So again Continuum, flexing between the different uses of Windows.
Another huge investment we’re making is the idea of inking, you know, the ability to actually draw on a Web page and share it with your friends.
This is Microsoft Edge. I’ll let you guys look up the stats but we’re doing amazing in some of the benchmark speed tests versus other browsers, a lot of good momentum there.
But what I want to call out is how awesome this is.  If I’m looking at these awesome performances that are coming up at the Berlin Philharmonic, I can simply go here and choose to ink on this, and maybe to my friend I’m saying, you know, “Wow,” and I can share that with him.  So easy to ink, easy to share with my friends, to Facebook, to mail.  And, of course there’s tons of other inking capabilities throughout Windows, whether you’re in Office with OneNote, whether you’re using some of the industry-standard design programs like Photoshop.  There’s going to be a ton of uses for that and a ton of great hardware form factors that will support that as well.
So again huge ways that amazing hardware and software and Windows are going to come together to empower great experiences for our users.
Now, when we talk about this idea of personal and productive, I’d be remiss if I left out a certain people.  Who am I talking about?  Who am I leaving out so far?  Cortana.  Someone said it in the back.  Awesome.  Cortana.  Cortana is the world’s most personal digital assistant, OK?  You may have heard the name from Halo.  Our Windows Phone users have loved Cortana to date.
Cortana uses the things that she knows about you in order to help you complete tasks, but it’s very transparent.  At any point, you can see what Cortana knows and have her forget stuff.  You always know what’s in there.
But yeah, so, for example, if I ask for a place to eat, I tend to like barbecue and meat, as you can probably tell by looking at me.  I’m not a vegetarian.  So Cortana’s not going to recommend a vegetarian restaurant for me necessarily because she knows my likes.
Cortana can recommend, hey, traffic’s bad, you should probably leave for your next meeting, because she’s looking at my calendar and monitoring traffic.
Superpersonal suggestions to empower me to do the things that I want to do.  And now in Windows 10 built right into the OS.
So there’s all kinds of cool phone stuff that Cortana’s done in the past.  I want to start off and just show you some of the really neat, interesting and powerful PC-specific things that Cortana can do.
One of the ones, I don’t know if you’re like me, I struggle with just having to do math.  I need a calculator.  I forget.  So I can have Cortana help me with that kind of stuff.  I can say things like, “Hey, Cortana.  What’s 2.8 times 10.5?”
Oh, let me close that there, try one more time here.  “Hey, Cortana.  What’s 2.8 times 10?”  So we’re having some audio issues there.  Sometimes in these large keynote environments it’s a little bit harder with the echo than it is in your home.
I’ll try one more, which is in the form of a file search.  I don’t know if you’re like me, I lose files all the time, forgetting where I saved them.  Cortana can actually look through your device and the cloud to find those for you.  Again with the keynote environment, with the echo, let’s see if that’s going to work.  I’m going to go ahead and close that window there.
“Hey, Cortana.  Show me PowerPoint slides about the charity auction.”
So just like that, we had better with the luck there.  You can see this is searching my OneDrive, as well as my personal device.  So imagine never losing a file again.  I actually found the PowerPoint deck I was trying to present a while ago by using this.  So a ton of great functionality with personal computing built-in with Cortana.
Now, Nick mentioned security.  Windows 10 is the safest and most secure Windows ever.  And we’re bringing that to light with a new feature that he mentioned called Windows Hello.  It’s biometric authentication that’s two factor, and it’s keeping you supersecure.  You can enroll your face and actually unlock with your face with the use of in this case the Intel RealSense camera that’s actually going to unlock with my face.
So right now, my PC is looking for me.  No trickery, look at this.  I’m just going to step in front of it, and then just like this it unlocks.
OK, I’ll do that one more time for you.  I’ll press Windows-L here to lock that up.  So again I like the little UI, little eyeballs looking for me.  I step in front of it, it looks at me, and it unlocks, just that quickly.
So not only is this superenterprise-grade secure but also I don’t have to type passwords, because who loves typing passwords here?  That’s right, nobody.  You just don’t.
But even a step further, imagine this going into like how you authenticate to do other stuff like maybe buying an app, and I’ll show you that now.  I’m going to come down and open the Store.  Let’s come down here.  And I’m going to do a search for “Minecraft.”  “Minecraft.”  There we go.  Maybe I want to buy this.  You guys have all seen when you want to buy an app, typically we authenticate again, no matter what store you’re using.
Well, now when I go ahead and click on the $9.99 here to buy this, you can see it’s going to look for me, I’m going to step in front, and just like this it says, “Hello, Bryan Roper.  Select OK to continue.”  I didn’t have to type a password; it was all there for me.  And imagine this extending to other areas.
So we’re superexcited about Windows Hello.  And again, once you’re enrolled, your data, your face, that stays locked on the device.  It’s not in the cloud, it’s supersafe and secure, it’s right there.
What do you guys think so far?    Cool!
How about some fun stuff?  Who likes to game here?  Any gamers?  One guy in the back.  Well, hello, sir.  I got something for you.  Awesome.
So gaming is huge for us.  Right here this is an Asus ROG gaming laptop.  I love this device.  It’s pretty awesome.  And I’m playing one of my favorite games here, “Goat Simulator.”
I want to call out in Windows 10 Xbox One controllers are plug and play.  So you can plug those in and use them with any game, whether it’s from the Windows Store or a more in-depth game that you’re running as a PC fan.
I’m going to run over here.  I don’t like how these people are dancing.  I’m going to threaten them.  They’re not leaving.  That’s it.  I have no choice, I’m going to knock them down.
So I’ve attacked the people with my goat.  I find it hilarious.  I want to share this with my friends.  Windows 10 is built for gamers.  With one click the Xbox app will let me actually come in here, bring up Game DVR.  You can see that game clips were recorded.  And I’m[?I’ve?] jumped to my Xbox app now, and you can see in the app it’s recorded the clip.  I can actually come in and even trip this clip to the funny part where I attacked the guy.  And I can share this on my Xbox network.  So all my friends can see that.  I can chat with them.  They can see my achievements, even though I’m playing from a PC.
In addition to that, you’re going to see a ton of our titles launching on console and PC at the same time, that it’s going to drive a lot of cross-platform play and interaction between both platforms.  So we really believe that’s going to be powerful.
And, lastly, to Nick’s point previously, we have over a century of Xbox in-home streaming time that’s been happening.  That means you have your house, let’s say mom and dad want to watch a show, but the kids want to game, no problem.  With this Xbox app, you can actually use your PC to kind of remote control the Xbox, and you can game right on your PC controlling that Xbox undisturbing of the other parts of the family.  So over a century of time that people have logged on that so far.
What do you guys think?    All right.  Now, folks, that’s only one part of the equation.  That’s the software.  That’s Windows 10, that’s what I’m excited and passionate about.  But there’s a whole other side and that’s the hardware.  And to show you some of that I’m going to welcome Nick back to the stage.  Make some noise for him.  
  Thanks.
OK, so you saw Windows 10 or at least a few of the features that we just love to demonstrate, and now it’s all about the hardware.  This is the incredible innovation, the incredible ideas, and some of the most exciting IP that we’ve seen as we combine some of those new features in Windows 10 with some of the new hardware innovation to bring together new experiences that we’ve never been able to do before until we had the combination of the two.
Now one thing I will say, and I’ll give approximate U.S. dollar prices for these products is, please be aware that obviously prices will change by region as well as availability.  And so just bear that in mind, and you can always go to Newsroom for other still images or high-def images of some of these products where available.
So I’m going to start off by talking about education devices and no better way to start than with the Acer Aspire One Cloudbook.  There’s a lot of reasons to love this device.  And if you think of the education environment, clearly it’s thin and light, 18.5 millimeters.  A very nice device.  Stylish, thin, you can see that.  One of the great things about this is it has two mikes for Cortana, so it’s ready for Skype, it’s ready for Cortana.  But also it’s $169 U.S. dollars.  So that is an incredible device for education.  Of course, you’ve got local storage so it’s great online as well as offline, which is a key differentiator to its competitors, but a very nice device there from Acer.  The team at Acer did a great, great job there.
The second of the education devices I would like to show you about today is the Lenovo IdeaPad 100S.  This is a 14-inch device.  And my good friend the cameraman here can show you, one, how thin and light it is.  So a 14-inch screen, HD, running Intel Atom, 19 millimeters thin, easy to carry, and a 12-hour battery, that’s something that any pupil in school or, in fact, anyone looking for that great value PC would be superhappy to buy.  And, again, starting at $229.  So incredible design, love the team at Lenovo for that.  That red color is very, very, very fun.
So the business notebooks continue to just provide the workhorses that power the world.  And this next device, and I’m only going to show you a sneak peek on this slide because you won’t have ever heard about this before, and you can actually get the high-res image on Newsroom, is the Dell Latitude 11.  This is the new two-in-one from Dell and a 6th Generation Intel Core as well as being thin and light, having Windows Hello and with V-pro you’ve got that hardware security and reliability that you want in your business PC.  So new today.  You’ll hear more of that coming soon.  But great to see from the Dell team.
Now the HP Elitebook, this is the HP Elitebook here as you can see.  The Elitebook Folio, and again a beautiful thin device, very, very light.  I don’t know if you can see that, and you can get the side there.  Starting at $1,249.  So now, again, Intel V-pro chipset, optional Bang & Olufsen sound, dual-array mics for Cortana or Skype or your conference calls, which are pretty critical here.  And it’s got one of the thinnest and lightest screens you can actually see.  The best thing about these devices is you have all of the ports that you actually need in business.  I don’t know if you can see, you have all of the ports there, including the ability for docking station and port replication, full HDMI and, again, second USBs as well as micro there as well.  Very, very powerful business PCs and incredibly popular for professionals.
The last of the business PCs I would like to talk about is the Lenovo ThinkPad Yoga 460.  This is the ThinkPad here.  So again, taking that incredible Yoga design, getting it even thinner and lighter, it’s multimode, you know the traditional multimode that everyone has come to love in terms of the Lenovo design, pen, Windows Hello fingerprint.  So this has the biometric platform fingerprint sensor for Windows 10, as well as obviously the waterproof lift and lock keyboard that we’ve seen demonstrated — incredible with a 4.5G option, as well, for mobile broadband.  So for a professional on the go that wants to be connected everywhere with the great Lenovo ThinkPad brand, a very nice device, with the Yoga 360 touch and type, great business PC.
Now one area where you’re probably not used to seeing Windows 10 branding, and you may not realize that Windows is actually powering some of those devices, is in our IoT versions of Windows.  And, in fact, the first device you saw on the screen there was a video poker machine from Windows.  We also do machines that run our Windows IoT versions, such as ATMs, such as gas pumps and medical devices.
This is Windows under the hood being powered by IoT and also leveraging the power of Azure to provide business insight, business data, as well as just making incredible new experiences for businesses and consumers alike, combining the two.  But, again it’s under the hood.  You won’t be used to that Windows branding.  But, we have a pretty successful business doing that with our partners.
Actually, as we think about specialized devices, Panasonic continue to grow and we see that business in terms of ruggedized devices.  As we see the cloud bring power to more and more of us in the furthest reaches of our business environment, we see the need for ruggedization and ruggedized devices continue to increase.  And whether it’s this device, which has the mil spec IP 65 capability, or whether it’s the other line of the Toughbooks and the Toughpads from Panasonic, this is a rapidly growing category where you can really take all of the power of the cloud into the harshest environments in the world and continue to have that mobile-first, cloud-first experience.  And Panasonic do a great job designing those.
The next device I want to show here is this Toshiba Data Logger.  This is an environmental data logger.  This small device here you can put up to 20 sensors in this device.  These sense everything from barometric pressure to temperature, to GPS and so on.  And this actual device here, this data logger has a battery life of about six months.
So the kind of scenario that you would imagine here is any precious cargo that you have traveling around the world, or maybe it’s in a shipping container, maybe it’s a boat, and this data logger is able to log from those 20 sensors all of that data, go through a gateway or a satellite uplink, and connect directly with Azure, and this is where we start to see some of the incredible business solutions of the capability of taking a device of this class, running Windows, running one of the IoT versions of Windows, powered by the cloud, that enable us in businesses to maybe track our cargo, or understand the temperature and what that means to our perishable cargo, but also then apply business insight and logic, predictive decision-making, and this is really where you start to see the power of IoT bringing real meaningful business value with our hardware partners to solutions like this.
I’m going to change gears and move to a category that has double digit growth.  We know it as the all-in-one category, and no better way to start than with the Dell Inspiron 24.  This is a beautiful 24-inch screen, edge-to-edge touch.  You can see here we’ve got edge-to-edge touch and with the Windows Hello camera.  So this is the future of these desktops that we see in the home, whether you’re just changing into this kind of core desktop mode, where you’ve got touch and type, or whether you want to play a family game, where each of your family members is going to recognize with their face and bring up the things that me or my six-year-old daughter really want to see when we log into our PCs.  It’s thin, edge-to-edge touch.
The next device here is the ASUS Zen All-in-One.  And this is a device that continues to wow people at the show with its just sheer beauty.  And the team from ASUS have brought that design language and style that you’d expect from them.  Again, 24-inch screen, now this device, this device will actually have a 4K option.  This device has the Windows Hello camera you can see there and will bring incredible graphics power.  So whether it’s professional photography is the thing that you want to work on this, or gaming, with the NVIDIA accelerated graphics cards in the device, coupled with that core Intel processor, you see incredible capability from this all-in-one.  It’s the GTX 960 GPU, Windows Hello, and quad-mic array for Cortana, enabling that all around the room listening for whether it’s the Skype phone call with a relative, or someone away, or you just want incredible microphone quality for your Cortana for multiple people around the PC.
The next area of devices as we start to think more and more about kind of consumer mobile devices is the two-in-one category.  This is over 90 percent growth this year.  So these are two-in-ones, 90 percent unit growth in the category.  And this is one of my favorites from our friends here at TrekStor, and it was great to see them this morning.  And this is the TrekStor Volks-Tablet 4.  This is a 10.1-inch, full HD device, with pen support as an option, as well as mobile broadband as an option, 249 euros for a 10.1-inch device.  This is absolutely beautiful.
I don’t know if you can see the shiny edge here, with this really nice effect that’s mirrored on the keyboard.  And then we can take it apart and it’s a very nice design, very thin device.  This is the TrekStor Volks-Tablet 4, from the team at TrekStor locally, very popular here in Europe.
Now I’m going to move into kind of core notebooks.  And this is a device we actually bought last week running Windows 10.  And this is the HP Pavilion 15.  These are very high volume selling devices, running Intel Core i3, touch screen as you can see here.  And this device, we bought for $399.  It’s a 15-inch laptop, touch, as well as full height ports on both sides, and you can see there it actually has an optical DVD drive, so for $399 DVD drive, full height ports, 15-inch, bringing touch to the masses.
And this is where when you see the touch applications in Windows 10, you can really start to bring your PC to life in these multimodes, whether it’s just getting stuff done, writing an email, doing homework, or whether it’s paging through a shopping catalogue, or just pages of the Internet, or you’re doing research, it’s great to see that touch and type come together.
This next device some of you may have already seen launched this week.  But this is another one of these new devices from ASUS who just have not stopped the innovation this year between Zen and Republic of Gamers.  This is the ROG or the Republic of Gamers G752 gaming notebook.  Let me just unplug it here, 17-inch screen.  Let me just make sure you can see all of this, 17.3-inch screen.  This is from approximately $1,399, 6th Generation Core from Intel, NVidia GTX-980.  It weighs about 2.5 kilos, but it has anti-dust cooling system.
Now for any of you people out there that do game that over clock both their GPUs as well as their CPUs, you generate heat.  And this has a very, very good innovation rear exhaust that will exhaust the heat from both the CPU as well as the GPU.  And this is the kind of innovation that really stimulates these notebook — particularly the gaming notebook markets that you see here.  And with anti-ghost gaming keys and this red backlit keyboard, this is a pretty sick PC to be able to do your gaming on with DX12 support.
So as I reach the kind of last two devices, I think you’re kind of getting a sense of where we’re going in terms of that incredible volume notebook here, the gaming PC, and this is, again, a device that’s got a lot of presence.  It’s a new device from the design team at Toshiba.  This is the Toshiba Radius 12.  And firstly you can see it’s a beautiful design, it’s that 12-inch screen.  You’ve got that edge-to-edge glass.  Starting at $899.  The thing I love about this machine, it has all of those hardware capabilities that light up the new features of Windows 10.  So it has the array mics for Cortana.  It has Windows Hello face unlock.  So this notebook has the Windows Hello-compatible camera, as well as having a 4K screen option, and a 6th Gen Intel Core processor.  This is an incredible PC with the Harman Kardon speakers from Toshiba.  And it’s just beautiful.  Look at that brushed finish you can see there with touch as well.  And let me just show you the hinge here, if I just undo this, and in full tablet mode you get all of that use from the 360 hinge, so you can use it in full 4K tablet touch mode as well as PC.
The Toshiba innovation doesn’t stop there.  And this is just absolutely phenomenal and, again, you won’t have seen this.  It’s a sneak peek.  I’m not even going to talk about the name.  It’s a new Toshiba two-in-one and the first time ever you’ll have seen this.  So Morato-san  and the team have just absolutely surpassed themselves in terms of design here.
So this is the very, very light keyboard.  I don’t know if you can see that there.  And ultrathin, beautiful, with pen.  The pen comes off there.  I don’t know if you can see how thin that is.  It’s hard to say how light it is.  And the resolution on the pen here, and its ability to work in terms of how you’d expect a pen to work is just phenomenal.  A beautiful, full-blown Windows 10 PC Toshiba two-in-one, and you’ll hear much more about this device in the coming weeks.  Just tremendous to see the innovation from the Toshiba team.
So we’re really breaking boundaries as we start to think about new software capability powered by new hardware capability in these stunning designs.  I just want to say thank you to all of our hardware partners for the incredible innovation that they will deliver to bring these amazing Windows 10 devices to people across the world.
Thank you very much for your partnership.  Thank you.
